SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/student-travel-and-insurance-intranet/SitePages/Student-travel-authorisation-and-booking.aspx

Student Travel and Insurance
Travel authorisation and booking
Travel process overview
The University has appointed Diversity Travel as its travel management company. All University funded travel must be booked using Diversity Travel and it is strongly recommended to do so if travel is self-funded. Diversity Travel provide 24-hour support to those travelling.
All overseas travel, and any UK travel which costs more than £500 must be authorised prior to booking by completing a travel request form, and overseas travel risk assessment form.
Upon completion of these you will receive 2 HSW reference numbers. You will not be able to book travel with the Universities travel management company without these.
Travel policy
University's travel policy applies to all students using University and other official funds for business travel and expenses.
Before booking travel within the UK
- Travel costing more than £500 requires authorisation, you must complete an online travel request. Once approved, travel can be booked using the University's travel management company using the HSW reference generated by the approval process.
- Travel costing less than £500 can be booked directly with Diversity Travel. This must be agreed by your manager or supervisor.
Before booking overseas travel
- Complete the online travel request for students. Once approved, a risk assessment will be emailed for completion. Upon completion you will receive 2 HSW reference numbers. Provide these when booking with the University's travel management company.
- Guests travelling on University business, including accompanying partners and children of students, must submit a completed guest travel request form and a risk assessment form. Once completed send to h.e.whitehead@bradford.ac.uk to be issued with a HSW reference number for the booking.
- Review and follow all advice and requirements, including those related to COVID, on the UK Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO)
website. Overseas travel to destinations that the FCO advise against all travel is not permitted. Where the FCO advises against all but essential travel Senior Management must approve travel as part of the travel request. You may need to submit further information about the critical nature of travel.
- Email h.e.whitehead@bradford.ac.uk to report any trip lasting over 12 months.
- Email h.e.whitehead@bradford.ac.uk if a letter of insurance is required to obtain a travel visa.
-Apply for a UK Global Health Insurance Card (GHIC) if you do not already have one for reduced healthcare costs in Europe.
Travel VISA requirements
- It is the responsibility of those travelling to check visa and immigration requirements carefully for both your destination and all transit points, using government websites or the Diversity Travel Sherpa Tool. Especially for all non-UK / EU passport holders, you may need to apply for visas to connect in popular transit airports such as Amsterdam (KLM), Paris (Air France) or Frankfurt / Munich (Lufthansa).
- Apply for a VISA at least 10 weeks before a planned trip.
- Travel insurance will not cover any trips that are cancelled. or disrupted due to a VISA problems.
- Please advise your agents at Diversity Travel at enquiry stage if you or fellow travellers need to apply for visas.
Email h.e.whitehead@bradford.ac.uk if a letter of insurance is required to obtain a travel Visa.
Booking air or rail travel and accommodation with Diversity Travel
- Turing placement travel bookings should be booked by phoning Diversity Travel and identify as a Turing placement student. Bookings can be made by card payment. Registration with Diversity Travel is not required.
- Other travel paid for independently should be booked by using the online self booking tool or by phoning or emailing the Oak Team at Diversity Travel. Registration with Diversity Travel is required.
- Travel paid directly by the University should be booked through Diversity Travel, using their online self booking tool. Registration with Diversity Travel is required.
- Registration with Diversity Travel can be done by completing the new online user request form. A welcome email, including log in details will be issued.
- Diversity Travel offer competitive rates for rail, air and accommodation bookings. They offer academic and negotiated air fares where available, these may include flexible and refundable fares and additional baggage.
- Diversity Travel can offer National Express bookings as an alternative to rail travel. Phone or email Diversity to enquire and book.
Diversity Travel Pine Team contact information:
- Tel: +44 (0) 161 235 5414 - Monday to Friday, 08:45 - 17.30
- Emergency out of hours: 44+ (0) 161 300 8258
- Email: pine@diversitytravel.co.uk
Before you travel
- Check the FCO website for updates for your destination. If the FCO issue new advice against all or all but essential travel, travel may have to be cancelled or re-arranged. Email h.e.whitehead@bradford.ac.uk or l.tejeda@bradford.ac.uk for advice.
- Take a copy of the Chubb assistance for travellers when travelling. You may have to show this upon entry to your destination as proof of COVID emergency medical insurance cover.
- Download the University's SafeZone App for 24-hour support.

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/health-safety-and-wellbeing-intranet/SitePages/SafeZone.aspx

Health and Safety
Safezone
'SafeZone'
SafeZone is a free service for all University of Bradford Staff and Students; it makes it easier for you to alert the Security team here at the University should you need help whilst on campus.
SafeZone works by sending your name and location directly to the University security control room, this allows a swift and appropriate response to provide you with appropriate support.With SafeZone on your phone, you’re connected to University Security whenever you need it, 24/7.
SafeZone is compatible with iPhone, Android and Windows phones and tablets. By installing the SafeZone app and signing up as a user, you will also receive any critical notifications from the university.
SafeZone provides all staff and students with peace of mind. In the unlikely event of any problem while on campus, you can get help quickly and easily. The App works on University of Bradford City campus and at the University nursery and is FREE using your University of Bradford email address. We would encourage everyone to sign up for SafeZone on their mobile device.
It is mandatory that staff and students install SafeZone in order for overseas travel to be authorised. This is to facilitate two-way communication in the event of an emergency occurring whilst overseas.
The SafeZone app can be downloaded to either iPhone or Android
Note: If you activate your phone outside of the University defined SafeZone boundary, your will be given the option to contact the emergency services (Police, Fire or Ambulance).
If the SafeZone system is used whilst attending some other Universities operating an alliance system the respective University Security team will reach out to you.
Non-Urgent Enquiries
For non-urgent and 'general' enquiries during 'normal' office hours the reception team can be contacted.
First Aid
If you need medical assistance? Pressing the first aid button it will connect you immediately to the University Security Team. Once you've activated this function, Security will be able to track your approximate location.
Emergencies
If you feel threatened or see something suspicious? Pressing the EMERGENCY CALL button will immediately connect you with our Security team. Once you've activated this function, the Security team will be able to track your approximate location.
Wellbeing
The wellbeing icon when pressed will signpost support service in relation to Wellbeing, the icon has been configured to provide different information dependent on whether the activation has come from a staff or student phone respectively.
Lone Working Application
Lone Worker Check-In Timer
Manual Check-In
If you are working alone, outside normal hours, or are entering a high-risk work environment, SafeZone allows you to check-in to share your location with members of the Security team. The Icon will change to a 'checked' icon, and you will receive a confirmation message that you have been 'Checked-In'.
If you do this, your location and ID will be displayed on a map to Security to see for the duration of your Check-In session.
SafeZone will automatically finish your session as you leave the University boundary, or you can Check-Out again at any time by tapping the button again.
Check-in Timer
You can also set a check-in timer, which checks you in (the same as Manual Check-In) and then starts a countdown timer to cover the duration of your work session.
The Timer will count down to zero, starting from your nominated time. At any time, you can tap the Timer to cancel or re-set the time, and you can also Check Out.
You will receive a Warning push message at '5 minutes to go', when you can re-set the time, cancel the Timer or Check Out.
If the Timer expires, SafeZone will raise an Alert, showing your location and ID on a map to Security, who will then attend your location to ensure that you are OK.
Automatic Check-In
With your permission, your phone can be set to 'Check you in' whenever you move into a specially designated region on campus. Subject to you granting Auto-Check In permission, your phone will check you in or out, based on your current location. Location is updated at a low frequency to minimise battery impact. Auto Check-In does not require SafeZone to be running, your Check-In status is managed by the phone’s operating system. You can disable this feature at any time, which will stop the phone doing location checks.
1. If you have activated the Automatic Check-ins option, you will receive a Push Notification each time your phone Checks you in as you enter compatible Regions.
2. The check in function sends location updates about every 5 minutes, so as not to have any significant impact on your battery usage.
3. A single Check In session can last for up to 12 hours.
4. You must have been Signed In to SafeZone and not Signed Out (the app can be in background, or completely 'killed')
5. Auto check in will keep working until you return to the settings screen and disable 'Allow Automatic Check In', which you can do at any time.
Report Something
A new function of the SafeZone app is the tip reporting, or as it is identified in the screen shot below 'report something'.
This allows individuals to send a message to the University Security team and report a variety of issues including:
Assault/Abuse/Harassment
Hate Crime
Disturbances
Suspicious activity/theft/vandalism etc.
The report can also be done anonymously, to observers it will look as though the individual is just messaging.
Frequently Asked Questions
What is it for?
SafeZone is a free app that allows you to send a location-based alert from your smartphone or tablet to University Security Services whenever you need an immediate emergency response, first-aid or any other urgent help/information.
What are the recommended configuration settings for the SafeZone app?
Some of these will be configured for you as part of the installation process, which will ask your permission before changing any settings.
- Location Services Enabled – you will be prompted for this when installing the App.
- Wi-Fi enabled – having Wi-Fi enabled (without even being connected to a network) will significantly improve the accuracy of the location information sent by your device.
- Wi-Fi connected to the University network – being connected to the campus Wi-Fi will help ensure that your alert will be sent, even if your mobile service provider does not have coverage where you are on campus.
Emergency Messaging Service
SafeZone uses high-speed push messaging to allow the University to send you important notifications in the case of an emergency or critical incident on campus. Notifications may be accompanied by a loud alarm sound or in some circumstances, silent with a buzz. Be sure to follow any directions you are given, and where provided, tap ‘Open Link’ for further advice.
I have a new phone - what do I do?
If you are an existing user, simply download and install SafeZone and tap the icon to start the app. Sign In with your previous e-mail address and password, then you’re all set. If you have forgotten your password, you can request an automated Password Reset from the Sign In screen.
I don't want to make a fuss but I've been threatened or I was assaulted - what can I do?
The University Security team are onsite 24 hours a day 7 days a week via a phone call and they can then talk to you and help you whatever the situation, their 'non-emergency' number is 01274 236999.
In addition to the Security team you can also contact the Student Support Services and Counselling Services for confidential discussion, please follow the links at the bottom of this page.
What if I initiate an alert outside the Campus boundary?
If you are outside of the University’s SafeZone boundary when you activate an Alert, your phone will tell you that you’re outside the zone and offer you a connection to “999” for emergency services, the app will also give your GPS coordinates that you can pass on to the emergency services.
What if I accidentally press a call button?
If you accidentally press any SafeZone Call button, you can cancel the Call by tapping the button again while the “Circle” timer is winding down. After the Call (Alert) has been sent, you can still cancel your request, but you will still be contacted by the University Security team to be sure that you are OK.
Desktop Version
A desktop version of the mobile app is now available, this can be downloaded from the University Software Centre.
Privacy
SafeZone does not track your location. You only become visible on the system once you have raised an alert or checked in.
How will I know that my call has been received?
After pressing any of the three Call buttons, your phone will display the information shown above;
What do The three icons mean:
- Obtaining your location (checked when successful)
- Transmitting your alert to security(checked when successful)
- Awaiting Acknowledgement from University Security - the Text changes from “Alert Sent” to “Alert Acknowledged” once a Security Team member has seen your request and physically sent you their acknowledgement. The icon will be checked and the phone will also vibrate when this happens. This means they are about to call you (if you don’t call them) and they are now responding to your request.
At this point, you can call security directly by tapping the Green button, or Cancel the Alert by tapping the Red button. If you cancel at this point, Security will still call you to check that you are OK as they will have received an initial alert
Overseas Travel and the SafeZone app
Emergency
- if you have an emergency whilst overseas by activating the red emergency icon you will be directed to the respective Countries Emergency Services, simultaneously an alert will be sent to the University Security Control room who will then try to contact you.
First Aid
- Should you find yourself requiring First Aid you can activate the green icon, this will dial the University Security Control Room, please note that the request for first aid treatment will be restricted to verbal advice only. No information on how to seek assistance within a foreign country can be provided.
The non-urgent icon will send an alert to the University security control room who will try to contact you to ascertain what assistance you require.
Please note this should not be used for general 'chit-chat’. You should use your already established channels for general communications with people in the UK.

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/student-travel-and-insurance-intranet/SitePages/Student-Travel-Insurance.aspx

Student Travel and Insurance
Student travel insurance
Student Travel Insurance cover:
The University provides student travel insurance for pre-approved overseas travel and UK travel that includes an overnight stay, that is related to study or research activities.
Please be aware the University will change its Travel Insurance provider from the 31st of October from Chubb Assist to RSA - further information below.
Who is covered?
- All registered students attending the University in the UK on approved work, study or research related travel.
What is covered?
- Emergency medical treatment, including COVID treatment if a person tests positive whilst travelling. Important: policy excess applies.
- Cancellation, curtailment and disruption, repatriation.
- Personal belongings.Important: policy excess applies.
What is not covered, and is excluded from the Travel Policy Cover:
- Electronic items, such as mobile phones, laptops, Smart watches. Please seek your own insurance cover, if required.
- Overseas travel to destinations that the UK Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) advise against all travel is not permitted. Where the FCO advises against all but essential travel Senior Management must approve travel as part of the travel request. You may need to submit further information about the critical nature of travel. Travel to destinations that the Foreign Office advise against all travel to may not be covered by insurance.
- Travel disruption expenses due to strike action, labour dispute, mechanical breakdown, which existed or the possibility of which existed and for which advance warning had been given before the date on which the Journey was booked.
- Extreme sports such as, bungee jumping, skiing, snowboarding, skydiving, kite surfing, paragliding, scuba diving, skateboarding. Please seek your own insurance cover, if you intend on partaking in these activities.
- Medical insurance cover for COVID related medical costs, if a person begins an overseas trip having tested positive for COVID. Additional accommodation costs will not be covered if there is a requirement to isolate upon arrival.
- Emergency medical treatment - if advised against travel by a healthcare professional on medical grounds. Please email h.e.whitehead@bradford.ac.uk if further assistance is required.
- Emergency medical assistance for students returning to their country of residence, or if eligible to state health care.
Travel Policy - excesses:
- An excess of £150 will apply to any lost, stolen or damaged personal belongings, before a claim will be considered.
- An excess of £150 will apply to any emergency medical expenses, before a claim will be considered.
Contact information
If you experience a medical emergency or need to contact our travel insurers for help or support before the 31st of October 2024:
- Call the Chubb Assistance 24-hour emergency helpline on +44 (0) 20 7173 7796, or email medicalassistance@chubb.com. You will need to quote policy number UKBBBO39618, or
- Email h.e.whitehead@bradford.ac.uk
- Chubb provide a 24-hour Travel Insurance Customer Service from multi-lingual staff to assist in an emergency.
If you experience a medical emergency or need to contact our travel insurers for help or support after the 1st of November 2024:
- Call the RSA HELPLINE NUMBER +44 (0) 20 8763 3155 - Services can be accessed 24 hours a day 365 days a year.
- The new RSA Travel Policy Number is PA04282115
Please take a copy of the UoB - RSA Medical Assist Card when travelling.
Making a claim
Should you need to make a travel insurance claim, please contact h.e.whitehead@bradford.ac.uk or l.tejeda@bradford.ac.uk to request a claim form.
Keep a copy of all receipts, travel tickets, medical costs and police reports, you will be required to submit these with your travel insurance claim form.

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/disability-service-intranet

Disability Services
Disability Service
Welcome to Disability Service at the University of Bradford.
Being disabled means different things to different people. You may not consider yourself to be disabled. However, a disability can be any long term condition which has a substantial affect on day-to-day activities, including education.
Our committed team is here to ensure that all students with disabilities receive the support they need to succeed in their academic journey. We offer a range of services, including advice and guidance, and personalised support plans, to help you address any challenges you may face.
As a service, we maintain the University’s core values in creating an inclusive and accessible learning environment for all students. We aim to ensure that students with diverse needs can thrive, stay on track, and succeed in their academic journey throughout their time at the University of Bradford.
Who can use the service?
Any student who has a physical or mental impairment that substantially impacts their ability to carry out everyday activities, including studying. Substantial means more than minor or trivial, and long-term means it has lasted or is likely to last 12 months or more. This is classed as a disability according to the Equality Act of 2010.
Universities have a duty under the Equality Act 2010 to make reasonable adjustments to ensure all students, including those with disabilities, have equal access to education. This helps create an inclusive environment where everyone can stay on track, thrive and succeed in their academic journey.
We can support you if you have:
- Long-term medical / neurological conditions
- Long-term mental health condition
- Neurodiversity
- Physical and / or mobility impairment
- Sensory Impairments
- Specific Learning Difficulties (SpLD)
If you think the Disability Service can help you, please get in touch.
How to tell us about your disability or condition
You can refer your self via the MyBradford – Request for Support form. You can also email disabilities@bradford.ac.uk if you would like to discuss things further.
We are available on the front desk in Student Central between 10am - 3pm Monday - Friday for quick questions or queries
Being disabled means different things to different people. You may not consider yourself to be disabled. However, a disability can be any long term condition which has a substantial affect on day-to-day activities, including education.
You may wish to provide optional supporting documents such as a Form 8, medical letter or an SpLD diagnostic report. This will help us assess your needs for reasonable adjustments. However, we do assess individual needs on a case-by-case basis so please get in touch as soon as you can.

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/counselling-service-intranet/SitePages/Help-in-a-crisis.aspx

Counselling and Mental Health Service
Urgent Help
Are you, or someone you know, in immediate danger?
- Call 999 or go to the nearest A&E
Help from the NHS
- Call NHS 111. If you are unsure, call 111. They are open 24 hours a day and can provide advice and guidance when you need help urgently but not in an emergency (A&E should always be used in an emergency)
- Call Bradford NHS First Response on 0800 952 1181 in a mental health crisis.
- Talk to your GP. Ask at your GP for an Emergency Appointment. If you are waiting for an appointment please also consider who you can talk to from the information below
Someone to talk to:
- University of Bradford Counselling & Mental Health Service
  -- Open Monday - Friday, 8.30am - 4.30pm.
  -- counselling@bradford.ac.uk / +44 (0)1274 235750.
- Samaritans (free 24-hour helpline) on 116 123 or visit the Samaritans website.
- West Yorkshire 24-hour Mental Health Helpline - 0800 183 0558
- Qwell- Free digital chat and mental wellbeing support for adults in the UK.
- Text "Shout" to 85258 - giveusashout.org: free 24/7 text service for anyone in crisis
Places to go:
- Safe Spaces - a crisis support service for anyone in mental health distress. It provides a homely place to stay overnight for children and young people aged seven to 17.
  -- Call First Response on 0800 952 1181 at any time and ask for "Safe Spaces"
  -- Call Guide-Line on 08001 884 884 or chat online between 8am and midnight
- Andy's Man Club - a men’s suicide prevention charity, offering free-to-attend peer-to-peer support groups across the United Kingdom and online.
Other forms of support:
- How to Cope with Suicidal Thoughts
- Download our SafeZone app to your phone to request help and alert University of Bradford security staff.
- Check out West Yorkshire Police's Student Safety website
- The Complete University Guide also has a useful guide to staying safe at university.
- Look through our Self-Help resources.
If you are worried about a friend or housemate, please contact us and ask to speak to one of our Mental Health Advisors. They will be able to talk to you about your concerns and options for support.
- mhadvice@bradford.ac.uk
- +44(0) 1274 235 750
Please also contact us if you need to speak with someone following an extreme mental health event with a student or staff member.
- counselling@bradford.ac.uk
- +44 (0)1274 235 750

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/counselling-service-intranet

Counselling and Mental Health Service
Counselling and Mental Health Service
Student Central, Level 0
Open hours
- Monday to Friday 8.30am until 4.30pm
Contact us
- Email Counselling: counselling@bradford.ac.uk
- Email Mental Health: mhadvice@bradford.ac.uk
- Tel: +44 (0)1274 235750
If there are no drop-ins available, email counselling@bradford.ac.uk to make an appointment.

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/counselling-service-intranet/SitePages/Meet-the-team.aspx

Counselling and Mental Health Service
Meet the team
Counselling and Mental Health Service
Tel: +44 (0)1274 235750
Email counselling: counselling@bradford.ac.uk
Email Mental Health Advisers: mhadvice@bradford.ac.uk
- Lauren Howard - Counselling Service Manager
- Emma Shaw - Mental Health Service Manager
- Louise Kehoe - Client Liaison Administrator
- Stuart Yates - Counsellor and Supervisor
- Emmy Twigge - Counsellor
- Vicky Richardson - Counsellor
- Liz Parry - Counsellor
- Mim Goldstein - Counsellor
- Spencer Bridge - Counsellor
- Heather Bradley - Counsellor
- Katy Raven - Counsellor
- Kryssy Fordham - Mental Health Advisor
- Kathryn Holdsworth - Mental Health Advisor
- Azur Mehic - Counsellor
- Kirsty Todd - Counsellor
- Shabir Hussain - Trainee Counsellor
- David Hutchison - Trainee Counsellor
- Jane Medley - Trainee Counsellor

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/registry-and-student-admin-intranet/SitePages/Extenuating-Circumstances.aspx

Registry and Student Administration
Consideration of Personal Circumstances
What is Consideration of Personal Circumstances?
During your studies, you might experience difficult circumstances which impact your ability to attend learning sessions or complete assessments. This might include, for example, a serious illness, or personal issues such as bereavement. It is important that you tell someone at the University as soon as you can about any such issues so you can get the advice and support you need.
As soon as an issue arises, let your Module Tutor, Personal Academic Tutor or Supervisor know. They will then determine how best to support you. This may include support sessions to help with your assignment, or helping you to access other support services including the Student Success Team or Counselling Service
Extensions and Extenuating Circumstances
Even with appropriate support, students may sometimes be unable to complete assignments as required due to personal circumstances beyond their control. In these instances students may request an Extension or Extenuating Circumstances
A one week Extension can be requested on occasions where you will be able to complete a coursework assignment, but need a little extra time to do so. Please be aware that not all assessments are eligible for extensions - in particular any formative assignments, examinations, lab tests, quizzes and live presentations cannot be extended. More information is available in the Extensions FAQ.
Extenuating Circumstances are for occasions when you are unable to complete an assessment and, if approved, will permit you to complete the assignment at the next available opportunity (usually the supplementary period in the summer) at the same attempt. More information is available in the Extenuating Circumstances FAQ.
When can I request an Extension or Extenuating Circumstances?
Extensions must be requested by no later than 12:00 noon on the day of your deadline. You may only apply for one deadline extension for each piece of coursework. You do not need to provide evidence to request an extension.
Extenuating Circumstances must be requested no later than 7 days after the date of your assessment/deadline. You must provide evidence for an Extenuating Circumstances application to be accepted. If you are considering submitting ECs in advance of the deadline, please make sure you are certain that you will not be able to attempt the assessment before doing so.
What will happen if my request is accepted?
When an Extension request is accepted your Faculty's Programme Administration Team will amend your Canvas submission deadline as required. You will then need to submit in the same way as normal, making sure you meet the extended deadline. Please note that if you do not submit your assignment by the extended deadline you will receive a mark of 0 as normal.
When an Extenuating Circumstances request is accepted, a note is made on your record and your mark for the assessment is recorded as 0 with a grade of “CS”. This indicates that you will be permitted to take the assessment again at the next available opportunity (usually the supplementary period) at the same attempt status. Please note that once an application is accepted no other mark will be awarded for the assessment.

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/timetabling-intranet/SitePages/Attendance_Information_MAINPAGE.aspx

Timetabling, Attendance and Room Bookings
Attendance Information
Important: Please keep your student ID card with you at all times when attending a taught session. Without your ID card you will not be able to check-in to your lectures, labs etc... and may therefore be marked as absent for that session.

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/registry-and-student-admin-intranet/SitePages/Transfers,-Suspensions-and-Withdrawals.aspx

Registry and Student Administration
Transfers, Suspensions and Withdrawals
Transferring to a different course
First, you should discuss this with the Programme Leader for the course you wish to transfer onto, who will need to review your entry grades and academic performance and decide whether you can be accepted onto the programme. If you are unsure who the Programme Leader is for the course please contact the relevant Programme Administration Team
If you are studying on a visa sponsored by the University, you should also ensure that you discuss any potential change to your programme with the Visa Support Team before submitting any request.
You should then complete the Programme Transfer Agreement form. This must be signed by the Programme Leader of the programme you wish to transfer to. A copy of this should then be attached to your request via e:Vision:
Log onto e:Vision
Click on the Change of Circumstances link at the bottom.
In the drop down menu, select Programme change and click Next
Follow the instructions on e:Vision to complete the process. Ensure you attach your signed Programme Transfer Agreement form.
If you are accepted onto your new course, you will have to inform the Student Loan Company or your sponsor. Once your course transfer is agreed, we will also write to your funding body to finalise your transfer.
Suspending Your Studies
It is sometimes necessary for students to take time out of their studies. This could be for many reasons including health problems, family or work commitments.
If you would like to suspend your course you should first discuss with your faculty why you want to suspend, as they may be able to support you to manage your studies alongside other commitments.
If you decide that you would like to suspend your course, you need to contact your Personal Academic Tutor (PAT) and after discussion with them please visit e:Vision:
- Log onto e:Vision
- Click on the Change of Circumstances link at the bottom.
- In the drop down menu, select Suspend study
- Follow the instructions on e:Vision to complete the process.
Please be aware that:
When students suspend studies, the expectation is that they will normally return at the next enrolment point available for their programme of study (the following September for most programmes).
Students may not normally suspend their studies for more than a year. Students who are invited to re-enrol after their suspension is due to end, and fail to do so, are likely to be withdrawn.
The Suspension of Studies policy is available on the University Website.
Students studying on a Visa Sponsored by the University should also discuss the implications of suspending their studies with the
Visa Support Team
Withdrawing from your course
If you would like to leave the University, you should first discuss with your present department why you want to leave, as they may be able to help.
If you decide that you would like to leave, you need to contact your Personal Academic Tutor (PAT) and after discussion with them please visit e:Vision:
- Log onto e:Vision
- Click on the Change of Circumstances link at the bottom.
- In the drop down menu, select Withdrawal and click Next
- Follow the instructions on e:Vision to complete the process.
Questions
If you have any questions about Transferring Course, Suspending or Withdrawing, please contact either your Personal Academic Tutor (PAT) or the Programme Administration Team

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/student-casework-intranet/SitePages/Academic-Misconduct.aspx

Student Casework
Academic Integrity and Academic Misconduct
Here you will find information for students and staff about the University of Bradford's expectations in relation to the integrity of academic work, as well as the regulation, policy and guidance relating to the investigation of Academic Misconduct.
Academic Integrity: what is it and why is it important?
Academic Integrity means acting in a way that is honest, fair, respectful, ethical and responsible when it comes to the preparation and completion of academic work at University and beyond.
We expect students to act with integrity when it comes to their assessments. This means presenting their own work, written in their own words and clearly indicating through referencing where they have read and used the work and ideas of others. This idea of acknowledging the work of others might be new to some students, but it’s a really important part of demonstrating good academic practice at the University.
Students - we need to know and be able to trust in what can do. Your ideas, your abilities, your work. And we need to ensure that, as a University, we’re giving credit and respect to the work of others. Your assessments are designed to allow you demonstrate what you have learned in a module, and more widely, as a student in your subject. Passing your assessments yourself is your proof that you deserve your award.
Academic Misconduct = Cheating
The University is absolutely clear – if students present work which they have not produced as though it is their own, this is cheating and will be investigated as academic misconduct.
Students - no matter how stuck or under pressure you feel with your assessments, don’t be tempted to cheat. Although it might seem like the only option in the moment, it truly won’t help you – either in the short term in getting through your programme, or in the longer term when it comes to demonstrating your knowledge and skills to employers. It’s also not worth the risk – a major case of academic misconduct could result in you being withdrawn from your programme. This could significantly impact your education and future plans.
It is the responsibility of all students to ensure that they understand what is expected of them in their studies and assessments and to seek help when they need to. There are lots of resources available which can help – not only with your academic work, but also with any personal challenges you might be facing. See links to the University's support services within the Information for Students section.

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/student-casework-intranet/SitePages/Attendance-&-Engagement-Appeals.aspx

Student Casework
Attendance & Engagement Appeals
What is an attendance and engagement appeal?
An attendance and engagement appeal is a process that supports students to request a re consideration of a decision to either withdraw or suspend a student, made by an Attendance and Engagement Review Panel. This proecdure should be used by all students including those studying at UBIC and other Collaborative Partner Institutions.
Who can I get help from?
We strongly recommend that you contact the Students’ Union who can support you with your appeal. Their trained advisors can offer independent advice and can be contacted by emailing ubu-advice@bradford.ac.uk; or telephone 01274 233300.
The Student Casework Team can also provide support to help you to understand the procedure, but they cannot support you to submit your appeal. You can contact them by emailing complaintsandappeals@bradford.ac.uk or telephone 01274 235108.
When can I submit my appeal?
You will receive an outcome letter, informing you of the decision made by the Attendance and Engagement Review Panel. You can submit your appeal by completing and submitting the Attendance and Engagement Withdrawal / Suspension Appeal Form, within two weeks of receiving this letter.
What do I submit?
You need to complete a Attendance and Engagement Withdrawal / Suspension Appeal Form. The form will ask you to list the evidence that you are providing that supports your appeal. Once you have submitted the form, you will be sent an email, asking you to reply with your evidence.
Make sure you include all your evidence and documentation to support your case, such as a fit note or a letter from other healthcare professionals. Please see our Supporting Evidence Guide for what types of evidence is likely to be accepted.
If you are appealing on the basis of extenuating circumstances, as well as providing evidence to support the challenging circumstances you were experiencing, you will also need to evidence why you were not able to provide this information to the Attendance and Engagement Review Panel.
We cannot consider your form if you do not state the grounds and explain the reasons why you are appealing and you should try to complete all sections of the form so that the Investigating Officer can fully understand why you are appealing and what you are unhappy with.
How do I submit my appeal?
You will need to wait until you receive your outcome letter which confirms the decision made by the Attendance and Engagement Review Panel. Once you receive this letter you should submit an appeal within two weeks by completing this form - Attendance and Engagement Withdrawal / Suspension Appeal Form
What can I do if my appeal is late?
Late appeals will not be accepted without good reason. If the appeal is late, you must explain why and provide relevant evidence to support why your appeal is late, otherwise it could be rejected for being out of time. You should provide an explanation and evidence to support your reason for delay. For example, if you were ill during the timescale to submit an appeal.
What if I am studying on a student visa?
If you are studying on a student visa, you must declare this when completing the appeal form. Make sure you answer ‘yes’ to the question ‘Are you studying on a student visa?’. By doing so we will contact the Visa Support Team to request they place a hold on revoking your student visa until the appeal procedure is concluded.
If the appeal is not submitted within the two-week timeframe, the University will automatically inform UKVI. This means that if you are studying on a Student Visa and submit your appeal late, the University will have already notified UKVI that you have been withdrawn or suspended from the course.
What about attendance, progression or examination whilst my appeal is being considered?
As you are withdrawn or suspended from study, you are not permitted to attend classes, progress to the next stage of your course or take any examinations whilst your appeal is being considered.
What if I want someone else to handle my appeal for me?
Someone else is not permitted to handle your appeal for you (for example; parents, sponsors, or employers). However, if you have a mental health issue or disability which might impinge on your ability to make an appeal, a third party may be nominated to progress the appeal on your behalf.
You must confirm in writing that you authorise a third party to represent you by emailing complaintsandappeals@bradford.ac.uk and request a Third Party Consent Form.
What happens if my appeal is upheld (is successful)?
If your appeal is upheld (is successful) you will receive a completion of procedures letter, normally within one calendar month after we receive your appeal form. A copy will also be sent to relevant staff to inform them of the decision.
Possible outcomes may mean your case will be reconsidered (in light of the new information) by the Attendance and Engagement Review Panel or that you are permitted to rejoin your course.
What happens if my appeal is not upheld (is not successful)?
If your appeal is not upheld (not successful), you will receive a completion of procedures letter, normally within one calendar month after we receive your appeal form. A copy will also be sent to relevant staff to inform them of the decision. This means that the original decision made by the Attendance and Engagement Review Panel will remain in place.
There is no further internal procedure that you can follow, as this decision is final.
However, if you remain dissatisfied with the outcome of the appeal, you may a ble to apply for a review of the appeal decision, to the Office of the Independent Adjudicator(OIA), providing the appeal is eligible under their rules.
Normally, you can only escalate your case to the OIA if you have exhausted all the stages in this procedure and have received a completion of procedures letter.
Please note that you must raise a complaint with the OIA within 12 months of receiving the completion of procedures letter. We strongly recommend that you contact the Students’ Union who can support you if you wish to escalate your case to the OIA. Their trained advisors can offer independent advice and can be contacted by emailing ubu-advice@bradford.ac.uk or telephone 01274 233300.

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/student-casework-intranet/SitePages/Academic-Appeals---Students.aspx

Student Casework
Academic Appeals - Students
What is an academic appeal?
An academic appeal is a process that supports students to challenge or request a reconsideration of a decision by the Board of Examiners or relevant Postgraduate Research Committee or Panel who make decisions on a student's progress, assessment and award. This may include a request to change marks, progression decisions, or final award classifications.
If you consider that you have relevant grounds to appeal, the first thing to do is to try to resolve your appeal informally before you submit a formal appeal. Taught students are encouraged to contact their Programme Leader and Postgraduate Researchers are encouraged to contact their Faculty Director of Postgraduate Research. This should be done in writing within one week from the date the official results or decision was received.
Who can I get help from?
We strongly recommend that you contact the Students’ Union who can support you with your appeal. Their trained advisors can offer independent advice and can be contacted by emailing ubu-advice@bradford.ac.uk; or telephone 01274 233300.
The Student Casework Team can also provide support to help you to understand the procedure, but they cannot support you to submit your appeal. You can contact them by emailing complaintsandappeals@bradford.ac.uk or telephone 01274 235108.
What if I am a UBIC student?
If you are a UBIC student you can follow this procedure. However, there are some minor differences. Initially, you should contact the internationalcollege@bradford.ac.uk to see if they can resolve this under Early Resolution (stage 1). If you remain unhappy following early resolution you can submt a formal (stage 1) appeal. Your appeal will be allocated to an Independent Investigating Officer at UBIC. If you submit a review stage appeal, this will be considered by an Independent Investigating Officer at the University.
When can I submit my appeal?
For most students you will need to wait until you receive your results after the Board of Examiners or relevant Postgraduate Research Committee or Panel has ratified (formally confirmed), a decision with regard to your progress, assessment or award.
If you are a taught student, you will need to wait until you have received your official results. You will recieve an email to inform you that your results are available on e:Vision. You can access your results by selecting the Modules / Marks tab and then clicking on Access your latest Progression / Award information (this is where you will find Exam Board decisions), on your e:Vision student account. Postgraduate researchers will be emailed their results. Once you receive your results you should submit an appeal within three weeks.
In exceptional circumstances, with the approval of the Associate Dean of Learning and Teaching (or nominee), students may appeal against a failed module or placement mark before the mark has been formally confirmed. You will still need to wait until after your results have been considered by the Assessment Committee, as this is a group of academics who meet to confirm your marks are accurate.
This is normally only available to international students whose results indicate they may be withdrawn and students on placement where that failure prevents them from progressing within their award.
Associate Dean of Learning and Teaching by Faculty
- Faculty of Engineering & Digital Technologies FEDT-AcademicMisconduct-Complaints@bradford.ac.uk
- Faculty of Health Studies FHS-BusinessSupport@bradford.ac.uk
- Faculty of Life Sciences folscomplaintsandappeals@bradford.ac.uk
- Faculty of Management, Law and Social Sciences fomlss-complaintsandappeals@bradford.ac.uk
What do I submit?
You need to complete a Formal Stage Appeal Form. Make sure you include all your evidence and documentation to support your case, such as a fit note or a letter from other healthcare professionals. Please see our Supporting Evidence Guide for what types of evidence is likely to be accepted. Your evidence should be current, independent, and covers the full period of time being requested. Please do not submit photographs of a sensitive or distressing nature, we do not accept this as a form of evidence.
We cannot consider your form if you do not state the grounds and explain the reasons why you are appealing and you should try to complete all sections of the form so that the Investigating Officer can fully understand why you are appealing and what you are unhappy with.
Make it clear on the form the grounds (or reasons) why you are appealing as you are not permitted to add additional grounds or add substantive points later in the process.
If you have witness statements, include them with your appeal submission as they will not be accepted at a later time.
How do I submit my appeal?
Submit your appeal to complaintsandappeals@bradford.ac.uk. You will need to wait until you receive your results after the Board of Examiners or relevant Postgraduate Research Committee or Panel has ratified a decision with regard to you progress, assessment or award. Once you receive your results you should submit an appeal within three weeks.
What can I do if my appeal is late?
Late appeals will not be accepted without good reason. If the appeal is late, you must explain why and provide relevant evidence to support why your appeal is late, otherwise it could be rejected for being out of time. You should provide an explanation and evidence to support your reason for delay. For example, if you were ill during the timescale to submit an appeal.
What if I am studying on a student visa?
If you are studying on a student visa and you are appealing a withdrawal or suspension decision, you must contact the Visa Support Team to inform them you have submitted an appeal (by emailing visasupport@bradford.ac.uk). If we accept your appeal for consideration, we will also contact the Visa Support team to request they place a hold on revoking your student visa until the appeal procedure is concluded.
What about attendance, progression or examination whilst my appeal is being considered?
In limited circumstances, and as long as you are not affected by professional, statutory or regulatory requirements, you may be able to to re-register for the next stage of your course. This would be on the understanding that if your appeal was not upheld (not successful) the original decision would stand and you would then be withdrawn or transferred from your course.
Be aware that you are not permitted to progress onto the next stage when you have not achieved enough credits to do so, and the outcome of the appeal could not remedy this. For example, some professional courses do not allow any referrals as all modules must be passed at each stage of study prior to starting the next stage or only permit up to 30 theory module credits to be trailed into the next stage.
In addition, a successful appeal cannot override the professional, statutory or regulatory requirements for the award. For example you may be permitted another attempt at an assessment but you would still not be permitted to progress onto the next stage of your course.
If you are a taught student and have an appeal pending consideration, you can undertake supplementary assessment, but this is at your own risk and only where such cases are not affected by professional, statutory or regulatory requirements.
Please discuss whether you are eligible to progress onto the next stage or undertake supplementary assessment, whilst your appeal is being considered, with your Personal Academic Tutor, Programme Leader or Supervisor, who will be able to advise you on the options which are available.
What happens if my appeal is upheld (is successful)?
If your appeal is upheld (is successful) you will receive a copy of the appeal outcome letter, normally within one calender month after we recieve your formal stage appeal. A copy will also be sent to relevant staff to inform them of the decision. Your results profile will be reconsidered by the Board of Examiners or relevant Postgraduate Research Committee or Panel, usually by Chair's Action. Your transcript and / or results will be updated and you will be informed of the progression or award decision.
You must contact your Personal Academic Tutor to ensure you have access to all relevant modules and the opportunity to resubmit these is arranged.
What happens if my appeal is not upheld (is not successful)?
If your appeal is not upheld (is not successful) you will receive a copy of the appeal outcome letter, normally within one calendar month after we receive your formal stage appeal. A copy will also be sent to relevant staff to inform them of the decision. This will mean that the original decision that has been made will remain.
If you are dissatisfied with the appeal outcome, you may request a review of the decision by completing a Review Stage Appeal Form. You should try to complete all sections of the form so that the Investigating Officer can fully understand why you are appealing and what you are unhappy with. You must state the grounds and explain the reasons why you are appealing.
You should include evidence or documentation to support your case. Please see our Supporting Evidence Guide for what types of evidence is likely to be accepted.
Submit your appeal to complaintsandappeals@bradford.ac.uk, within two weeks of receiving the formal stage appeal outcome letter.
Your appeal will be considered by a member of the Student Casework Team and the decision will be approved by a Pro Vice-Chancellor (or nominee). You will receive a copy of a completion of procedures letter, normally within one calendar month after we receive your review stage appeal. A copy will also be sent to relevant staff to inform them of the decision.
If your appeal is upheld (successful) your results profile will be reconsidered by the Board of Examiners or relevant Postgraduate Research Committee or Panel, usually by Chair's Action. Your transcript and / or results will be updated and you will be informed of the progression or award decision.
If your appeal is not upheld (not successful) please see the section below.
What if my appeal is still not upheld (not successful)?
If your review stage appeal is not upheld (not successful), there is no further internal procedure that you can follow, as this decision is final.
However, if you remain dissatisfied with the outcome of the appeal, you may a ble to apply for a review of the appeal decision, to the Office of the Independent Adjudicator (OIA), provided the appeal is eligible under their rules.
Normally, you can only escalate your case to the OIA if you have exhausted all the stages in this procedure and have received a completion of procedures letter.
Please note that you must raise a complaint with the OIA within 12 months of receiving the completion of procedures letter.
We strongly recommend that you contact the Students’ Union who can support you with your appeal and if you wish to escalate your case to the OIA. Their trained advisors can offer independent advice and can be contacted by emailing ubu-advice@bradford.ac.uk; or telephone 01274 233300.

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/student-casework-intranet/SitePages/Student-Complaints.aspx

Student Casework
Student Complaints
The information and policies accessible from this page relates solely to the conduct of student complaints.
Allegations of bullying, harassment or discrimination are managed under the University of Bradford’s Dignity and Respect Policy and Procedure
This page provides an overview of the complaints process. If you intend to make a complaint you are advised to read the procedures which provides more extensive information about the process.
Who can complain
Complaints can be accepted under the Student Complaints Procedure from all students currently registered on a programme of study delivered at the University of Bradford or the University of Bradford International College (UBIC).
Students who have recently graduated, or been suspended, excluded, withdrawn or expelled from a programme of study delivered at the University of Bradford can also submit a complaint. However this must be submitted within three months of the date of graduation, suspension, exclusion, withdrawal or expulsion.
If you are a UBIC student you can follow this procedure. However, there are some minor differences. Initially, you should contact the internationalcollege@bradford.ac.uk to see if they can resolve your complaint under Early Resolution. If you remain unhappy following early resolution you can submt a formal complaint. Your complaint will be allocated to an Independent Investigating Officer at UBIC. If you submit a review stage complaint, this will be considered by an Independent Investigating Officer at the University.
Students who are studying at other Collaborative Partner Institutions should follow the complaints procedure of the partner institution in the first instance. In the event that students studying at Collaborative Partner Institutions are unhappy with the outcome of this process they may seek a review of their complaint under this procedure.
What are the stages of the complaint procedure
The Student Complaints Procedure is divided into three parts:
- Early Resolution, which emphasises resolution at the ‘local’ point where the issue arose before it escalates into a formal complaint.
- The Formal Stage, in which the complaint will be formally investigated, and a formal response issued.
- The Review Stage, in which a formal review of the complaint is undertaken.
Who can I get help from in preparing my complaint submission?
The University recognises that involvement in the Student Complaints Procedure can be a difficult and a worrying experience. Support, assistance and advice on all aspects of the complaints procedure, including the preparation and submission of your complaint, is available to students from the Students’ Union Advice Service, you can email them in the first instance (ubu-advice@bradford.ac.uk) or telephone (01274) 233300. The University strongly encourages students to access this support.
Disabled students, including students with mental health issues, who, for impairment reasons, might experience difficulty in accessing any aspect of the Student Complaints Procedure, may seek assistance from the Disability Service (disabilities@bradford.ac.uk).
What is the early resolution stage?
The University aims to resolve most complaints informally. Therefore, in the first instance resolution should be sought from the Faculty or Professional Service Directorate in which complaint arose. Students are encouraged to raise complaints as soon as possible, and ideally within ten working days of the incident, last act or omission which is the cause of the complaint. However, the nature of such complaints can vary widely and therefore complaints at the Early Resolution Stage can be submitted within one calendar month of the incident, last act or omission which is the cause of the complaint.
Complaints at the Early Resolution Stage may be raised orally or in writing. The matter will usually be dealt with by discussion. It is intended that the matter be resolved at this point.
What happens if my complaint isn't resolved to my satisfaction?
If your complaint is not resolved to your satisfaction you may submit it to the University for consideration via the Formal Stage of the procedure. This should normally be done within one calendar month of the end of the Early Resolution Stage or within one calendar month of the incident, last act or omission which is the cause for complaint.
Your complaint should be submitted to the Student casework Manager via complaintsandappeals@bradford.ac.uk. Complaints should be submitted in writing and should detail the grounds for the complaint, together with a statement of what has been done by the student to seek Early Resolution, what the response or resolution at this stage was and why this response or resolution was deemed inadequate. Where the Early Resolution stage was not invoked, you should detail why the complaint was deemed to be of a nature which makes Early Resolution unsuitable. Any supporting evidence which you have to support the complaint should be appended. You should also clearly indicate the form of resolution or redress sought.
Late submission of complaints at the Formal Stage will only be accepted where in exceptional circumstances which are supported by documentary evidence which is made available to the University (for example, if you were too unwell to be able to submit within the required timescales).
The timescale for receiving an outcome on your complaint will depend on the complexity of the complaint under consideration; however you should normally expect a written outcome at the Formal Stage within one calendar month of the submission of the complaint. If it appears that this timescale will be exceeded you will be notified of the revised timescale.
You will receive a written response to your complaint which will outline the outcome of the Formal Stage complaint and any remedy or redress offered by the University.
What happens if my complaint is still not resolved to my satisfaction?
If the response to your complaint following completion of the Formal Stage of the procedure is still not acceptable to you, you may invoke the Review Stage of the Complaints Procedure. A request to invoke the Review Stage should be made in writing to the Student Casework Manager (via complaintsandappeals@bradford.ac.uk) within ten working days of the Formal Stage outcome letter. Requests submitted in writing. Before submitting a complaint at the Formal Stage, you are encouraged and advised to contact the Students’ Union Advice Service for independent advice and support (ubu-advice@bradford.ac.uk).
Late submission of requests for the Review Stage will only be accepted where in exceptional circumstances which are supported by documentary evidence which is made available to the University (for example, where a student was too unwell to be able to submit within the required timescales).
The request should explain why the outcome at the Formal Stage was considered unsatisfactory and should include copies of all documentation provided to you at the Formal Stage along with any other documentary evidence pertinent to the request. The request should also set out the grounds on which you are requesting review at the Review Stage. The grounds permissible are:
- That there was an irregularity in the operation of the procedure at the Formal Stage which resulted in disadvantage to the complainant.
- That, on the facts available at the Formal Stage, the decision and outcome were not reasonable.
- That new evidence has become available which had not previously been disclosed. Consideration of such evidence will only take place in exceptional circumstances and the complainant will be required to explain why such evidence could not be disclosed at an earlier stage of the complaint.
The timescale for a review will depend on the complexity of the complaint under consideration. However, you should normally expect a written outcome at the Review Stage within one calendar month of the submission of the request for the review. If this timescale will be exceeded, you will be notified of the revised timescale.
You will receive a written response outlining the outcome of the Review Stage complain and any remedy or redress offered by the University. You will also be issued a Completion of Procedures letter. This concludes the process within the University.
Next steps
If you are unhappy with the outcome of the Student Complaints Procedure, or a decision not to allow the Formal or Review Stage to proceed, you may seek to have this considered by the Office of the Independent Adjudicator for Higher Education. This is done through the Completion of a Scheme Application Form, which may be obtained from the Complaints Manager, or the OIA. The Scheme Application Form must include a copy of the Completion of Procedures letter and should be received by the OIA no later than 12 months after the date of this letter.

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: http://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/appeals-misconduct-and-complaints-intranet/SitePages/About-the-Student-Disciplinary-and-Fitness-to-Practise-Procedures.aspx

Student Casework
Student Conduct (Student Disciplinary and Fitness to Practise)
About the Student Disciplinary and Fitness to Practise Procedures
Student conduct at the University is regulated by Ordinance 16: Conduct of Student Members of the University. This ordinance includes a non-exhaustive list of the various behaviours that students may commit which are felt to be unacceptable and may result in disciplinary action being taken against the student or students involved. The Student Disciplinary Procedure describes how these matters will be resolved, and who will make the relevant decisions at each stage of the process. This procedure applies to all students of the University.
Additionally, students on courses which are regulated by Professional Statutory or Regulatory Bodies (PSRBs) are subject to Fitness to Practise requirements; the specific code of conduct to which these students must adhere varies depending on their course of studies, but all such cases are managed in accordance with the Student Fitness to Practise Procedure.
Both of these procedures are approved by the University's Senate, and are reviewed and updated regularly. The current version of each procedure was approved in February 2023.
This site is intended to explain these processes to colleagues and to students, and to share helpful resources which may be of use, whether you are supporting a student going through the disciplinary process, are interested in acting as an investigator, or going through a student disciplinary case yourself and want to get a better idea of what to expect.
Which process to use?
Taking a student through the Disciplinary or Fitness to Practise Procedure isn't always necessary or appropriate.
The table on the below sets out some of the different approaches that can be taken with regard to students whose behaviour may be causing concerns.
This table is intended to be a guide and is not an exhaustive list of things dealt with under these procedures. Additionally, every case is different, and though some cases may initially appear to be best dealt with under one procedure, upon looking at the details it can become apparent that another procedure is better suited.
Please note that the Fitness to Practise Procedure only applies to students registered on specific regulated programmes (e.g. nursing, social work, radiography.
Misconduct under Ordinance 16 may be dealt with under the Fitness to Practice Procedure and taken more seriously than would be the case for other students where the student is on a relevant programme and where it is felt appropriate to do so due to the nature of the misconduct.
Health, Wellbeing and Fitness to Study Procedure
- Students with difficult issues in their personal lives
- Students who cannot attend but can engage with their studies (e.g. due to temporary mobility problems)
- Where issues arise from a temporary mental health crisis or a longer-term mental health condition
- Where students have chronic health issues which impact on their studies
Fitness to Practise Procedure
- Where a student puts a patient safety at risk
- Where a student fails to recognise the impact of their behaviour
- Dishonesty or fraudulent behaviour
- Misuse of social media e.g. identifying patients in posts or photos, unprofessional behaviour
- Misuse of controlled drugs
- Other unprofessional behaviour
Normal PAT-Student pastoral support
- Addressing low level misbehaviour
- Providing advice relating to the expectation to behave in a professional manner
- Providing guidance following a failed placement
- Developing a Placement Support Agreement
-  Signposting support available elsewhere
Disciplinary Procedure
- Serious violence
- Sexual misconduct
- Bullying/harassment
- Potential reputational damage to the University
Typical outcomes
Each case has its own set of individual circumstances which will be taken into account when any decision regarding the outcome is made. This can make it difficult to give an idea of what a likely outcome will be for a particular ‘type’ of misconduct, assuming it's found that the relevant allegations are true. Such considerations would be similar in a Student Fitness to Practise case, but would of course be impacted by the standards of the profession and the accompanying variations between appropriate outcomes in these two procedures.

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/research-students-intranet

Postgraduate Researchers
About us
Welcome to the University of Bradford, this website has been developed for our Postgraduate Researchers and staff and is maintained by the Postgraduate Research Administration Team. The site provides information, advice and links to support you (and your supervisors) in the organisational aspects of your research degree. There are contact details below, should you need any assistance in these matters.
Postgraduate Research Administration Team
You can contact your Faculty Postgraduate Research Administrator on the contact details below or call into the team office (E61 Richmond) to see us, Monday to Friday 08:30 - 16:30:
- Faculty of Management, Law and Social Sciences – Email: fomlss-pgr@bradford.ac.uk – Phone: 01274 233405
- Faculty of Health Studies – Email: fohs-pgr@bradford.ac.uk – Phone: 01274 232925
- Faculty of Life Sciences – Email: fols-pgr@bradford.ac.uk – Phone: 01274 232157
- Faculty of Engineering and Digital Technologies – Email: foedt-pgr@bradford.ac.uk – Phone: 01274 232908
In addition to the above contact methods, you can also book an appointment if you would like a video call via MS Teams to discuss any queries you may have.
Please note: A student number (known as UB number) should be used in all correspondence; this is printed on your University of Bradford student card.
Address:
PGR Administration Team, E61 Richmond Building, University of Bradford, BD7 1DP

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/language-centre-intranet/SitePages/A.aspx

Language Centre
BASALT
The Language Centre offers a number of different entry routes for students whose first language is not English to prepare them for degree programmes .
The Bradford Academic Skills and Language Test (BASALT) is an in-house test that applicants to the University can use to provide evidence of their level of English. Successful achievement of the IELTS scores equivalents they need will allow applicants to meet their English Language conditions and progress directly onto their programme of study.
When and where BASALT can be taken?
The BASALT is administered on the University of Bradford campus throughout the year.It is suitable for undergraduate and postgraduate programmes, but for visa purposes it is not accepted for pre-degree programmes (such as a presessional English Language course or the Certificate of International Studies) for which UKVI-approved IELTS certificate is needed.
We can also offer the test in a number of test centres around the world.
What does the BASALT include?
The BASALT includes the following components:
- Part 1 Reading;
- Part 2 Listening;
- Part 3 Writing;
- Part 4 Speaking.

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/language-centre-intranet/SitePages/Foundation-Courses.aspx

Language Centre
Find out more about the Language Centre
We are a specialist team offering expert tuition and advice in academic English and academic literacy, academic English assessment and modern foreign languages. Our programmes support our students to achieve their academic potential at all levels.
How to find us
- The Language Centre is located Student Central 0.46.
If you have any queries, please email us at: thelanguagecentre@bradford.ac.uk
British Council Accreditation
The British Council inspected and accredited the University of Bradford (the Language Centre) in February 2017. The inspection report stated that the courses in Academic English for adults (17+) of this University met the standards of the Scheme.
Strengths were noted in the areas of quality assurance, learning, resources, academic staff profile, course design, teaching, care of students, accommodation, and leisure opportunities.
Contact us
- thelanguagecentre@bradford.ac.uk
- +44 (0) 1274 234574

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/language-centre-intranet/SitePages/In-sessional-Academic-English-Language-Support.aspx

Language Centre
Academic English Language Support
Semester 1 Academic English support classes start 30th September 2024
- Mondays 12-1pm Academic Writing
- Tuesdays 12-1pm Academic Speaking
- Tuesdays 1-2pm Academic Vocabulary
- Wednesdays 12-1pm Discussion forum
- Wednesdays 1-3pm Online Academic English workshops
- Thursdays 12-1pm Grammar
- Fridays 12-1pm Pronunciation
The Language Centre offers a range of free support classes, and one-to-one and small group tutorials to help you get the most from your studies at the University of Bradford.
We can support you with all aspects of your academic English language skills.
Please contact thelanguagecentre@bradford.ac.uk with any queries.
Support classes
Weekly classes let you develop your academic English throughout semesters 1 and 2.
Classes take place Monday to Friday on campus at lunchtime.
Enrol on our Canvas page for further information.
Workshops
Weekly Workshops are available on Wednesday afternoons 1.00 - 3.00 PM on Teams.
Enrol on our Canvas page to access the Teams links.
We are offering additional workshops throughout the week to focus on the skills necessary at various points in the semester. Enrol on our page to get up-to-date information about all workshops and classes offered.
One-to-one appointments
We offer 30-minute one-to-one appointments with an English for Academic Purposes lecturer to work on any aspect of academic English language. Small group appointments can also be arranged on request.
Appointments are made available two weeks in advance, so keep checking the booking system.
These advice sessions give you the opportunity to obtain feedback and help on many areas of your academic study, including: 
- understanding how to meet the requirements of an assignment or class task
- checking your use of English tenses
- specific tips on improving how to plan/organise your writing /read academic texts
- how to improve your academic vocabulary
- preparing to deliver more confident oral presentations
- and much, much more!
Please remember that while we can offer advice, we do not proofread your work.

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/language-centre-intranet/SitePages/Presessional-English-Language-Programme.aspx

Language Centre
Presessional English Language Programme
Pre-sessional English Programme(PREP) is an entry route onto degree courses for students whose first language is not English.
The PREP is designed to support international students’ transition to UK HE by improving their English language ability, academic skills, and cultural understanding. Students may join the programme at a number of entry points throughout the year depending on their level of English. Students with conditional offers can attend the Pre-sessional and do not have to re-take IELTS. The final block is also suitable for international students who have achieved the required IELTS grade for their course but wish to work on their academic English.
The Language Centre can also provide bespoke courses to meet the needs of specific cohorts of students.
For more information contact: thelanguagecentre@bradford.ac.uk
Entry requirements and fees
There are three entry points throughout the year depending on students’ level of language: PREP 20 runs from April until September; PREP 10 from the beginning of July until September and PREP 6 from the end of July until September. Fees are very competitively priced, and include course materials. For more information please visit our website
Course content
Each course provides 20 hours of tuition each week from qualified and experienced teachers of English in groups of up to 16 students. Over the course students’ level of English and academic skills are developed with a focus on linguistic accuracy in the lower levels moving on to reading and writing a range of academic texts, participating in seminars, giving presentations and understanding lectures and taking notes.
Why study Presessional
- Students receive a thorough induction and orientation to life at UoB (see Presessional English Language Programme (6 week) Induction Schedule)
- Weekly peer-assisted learning sessions are integrated into the course to support the transition into UK HE.
- A varied social programme to support students’ cultural transition (see Presessional English Programme Summer Social Programme)

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/language-centre-intranet/SitePages/Modern-Foreign-Languages---semester-2---Jan-to-March-2025.aspx

Language Centre
Modern Foreign Languages - semester 2 - Jan to March 2025
The Language Centre is offering FREE Modern Foreign Language courses for semester 2 as follows:
- Arabic beginners
- French beginners and post-beginners
- German beginners
- Spanish beginners
Classes take place on Wednesday afternoons from Jan 22nd until March 26th.
All our courses are completely free of charge for students and staff. You will learn with a qualified teacher and build your knowledge week-by-week. By the end of the course you will be able to hold basic conversations in the language.

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/language-centre-intranet/SitePages/Academic-Writing-for-Masters-(March-2025).aspx

Language Centre
Academic Writing for Masters (March 2025)
The Language Centre's Academic Writing for Masters course begins on Friday, 7th March, 2.00-4.00 pm in Chesham 2.06
The course runs for 4 weeks and you are encouraged to attend all 4 sessions.
Programme:
- 7th March: Academic Integrity - Reading and Note-Taking - Writing Clearly and Concisely
- 14th March: Paraphrasing and Summarising
- 21st March: Synthesising
- 28th March: Writing Critically

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/research-students-intranet/SitePages/New-PGR-Progression.aspx

Postgraduate Researchers
PGR Progression
For PhD students who started February 2022 onwards and their supervisors and Doctoral Thesis Advisory Panel members
This page provides key Information for Postgraduate Researchers (PGRs) on progression milestones throughout your doctoral study.
It also provides an overview of key stages to supervisors and the Doctoral Thesis Advisory Panel (DTAP).
The University of Bradford is committed to ensuring you progress throughout your doctoral studies and receive the support and expert guidance needed to be successful.
With this in mind, all new PGRs registered on PhD from February 2022 will follow supportive progression milestones to ensure you have the best experience during your doctoral studies.
In addition to your supervisory team, you will also be appointed a Doctoral Thesis Advisory Panel (DTAP). The DTAP will consist of 2 (internal) assessors, that will be identified at enrolment and should remain with you throughout the PhD wherever possible.
You will meet with your DTAP following submission of your first progression report, to ensure you have made a meaningful start to your PhD and discuss any initial concerns you may have.
The DTAP will then review successive progression reports and hold a formal review meeting with you to discuss progress.
The DTAP will review your progression report within 2 weeks of the submission deadline.
Further details of the progression milestones can be found below and also in the University Regulations for Research Degrees, found on the Regulation section of the University website
Full Time PhD PGR Journey
Throughout your doctoral study, you will be required to submit confirmation of your monthly supervision meeting to the PGRA Team. These form part of the overall picture of your progression and must be submitted monthly. In addition, you will be required to complete:
- 3-Month Progression
- 9-Month Progression
- 21-Month Progression
Faculty Research Conference before the end of your second year
- 33-Month Progression
If you do not submit by 36-months:
- 39-Month Progression, with quarterly progression submissions until thesis submission
Part Time PhD PGR Journey
Throughout your doctoral study, you will be required to submit confirmation of your bi-monthly supervision meeting to the PGRA Team. These form part of the overall picture of your progression and must be submitted bi-monthly. In addition, you will be required to complete:
- 6-Month Progression
- 18-Month Progression
- 42-Month Progression
Faculty Research Conference before the end of your fourth year
-  66-Month Progression
If you do not submit by 72-months:
- 75-Month Progression, with quarterly progression submissions until thesis submission
Doctoral Thesis Advisory Panel (DTAP)
The Doctoral Thesis Advisory Panel (DTAP) will consist of 2 (internal) assessors, who will be identified at enrolment and should remain throughout the doctoral journey wherever possible.
The DTAP will assess progression submissions.
The DTAP are approved by the DPGR. The panel should have the necessary methodological and/or topic expertise and be independent of the student’s supervisory team.
This means:
- No intellectual input throughout
- There will not normally be any joint publications
- No familial, sponsorship or other relationship
- The candidate may, however, know the DTAP – may be a member of the same research group, met at a conference etc.
-  The same principles should apply with regard to any potential relationship which might exist between either of the DTAP and the supervisor(s).
- Additional statements are not normally accepted to justify a potential conflict of interest due to a relationship between either of the DTAP, the supervisor(s) and the student
The PGRA Team will record the DTAP as part of the PGRs student record. Any changes to the DTAP, due to staff leaving or staff absence, must be communicated to the PGRA Team so the records can be kept up to date.
Submission of Progression Review Reports
Submission of Progression reports are made through CANVAS.
Similarity Checker: you can use the similarity checker to submit your draft progression reports multiple times to check their academic integrity using Turnitin. This work will not be assessed.
Final Submission: you will be given ONE opportunity to submit your final progression report for final assessment and it is your responsibility to ensure you submit the correct work.
Extension Requests for Progression Submissions
Extension requests to the submission deadline for all progression reviews are considered for a standard period of 1-month from the original expected submission date.
Extension requests must be submitted with the knowledge of your supervisory team.
You can only request one extension per progression review.
Extension requests must include supporting documentation, e.g. a medical note, copy of death certificate, counselling report/letter, police report etc.
Only in exceptional circumstances would an extension be considered after the submission deadline, and they will not be considered if received after 7 days of the submission deadline.
Extensions must be applied for using the Extension Form
If an extension to the submission date is approved, this will NOT also be applied to any future progression reviews that are due. It is expected that you work closely with your supervisory team to ensure any future progression reports are submitted on time.
Further extension requests to the same progression point will not normally be considered, unless there is evidence of new, unrelated extenuating circumstances.
Assessment of Progression Reports
Progression reports will be assessed by the Doctoral Thesis Advisory Panel. Your progression report will be reviewed, and the DTAP will meet with you to conduct an oral assessment of the submission.
Supervisor(s) are permitted to attend the progression meeting and may be invited by the DTAP to offer comments at any appropriate point during the oral assessment. The Supervisor(s) may request permission to clarify a particular point during the course of the assessment.
The PGR should be consulted by the DTAP prior to the oral assessment to confirm whether the Supervisor(s) should be present. If the PGR indicates that they would prefer the Supervisor(s) not to attend they will not do so. It is the responsibility of the DTAP to advise the Supervisor(s) accordingly.
Outcomes will be referred to the Faculty Postgraduate Research Progress Panel before confirmation of the outcome is formally released.
If the outcome of any progression review identifies that progress is not been made at the expected level, you will need to meet with the Faculty Postgraduate Research Progress Panel for further discussion and one of the following outcomes will be recommended:
1. Additional work required
2. PGR should be re-registered on Master of Philosophy
3. Recommendation of withdrawal
Outcomes of Progression Reviews 
3-month (Full Time) 6-month (Part Time)
- The project is on track – meets all expectations for this stage
- The project is on track, but some aspects need improvement for the next review
- Expectations not fully met in terms of progress or/and quality; a recovery plan has been agreed, to be reviewed at the 9-month/18-month review.
9-month (Full Time) 18-month (Part Time)
- The project is on track – meets all expectations for this stage
- Further work is required to meet expectations for this stage, to be represented to the Faculty Postgraduate Research Progress Panel for approval
- The PGR is required to re-register for MPhil with a revised workplan for submission
- The PGR is required to withdraw
21-month (Full Time) 42-month (Part Time)
- The project is on track – meets all expectations for this stage
- Further work is required to meet expectations for this stage, to be represented to the Faculty Postgraduate Research Progress Panel for approval
- The PGR is required to re-register for MPhil with a revised workplan for submission
- The PGR is required to withdraw
33-month (Full Time) 66-month (Part Time)
- The project is on track – meets all expectations for this stage
- Further work is required to meet expectations for this stage, to be represented to the Faculty Postgraduate Research Progress Panel for approval
- The PGR is required to re-register for MPhil with a revised workplan for submission
- The PGR is required to withdraw
- Confirmation at this millstone will confirm transfer to writing up at 36-months (Full Time) and 72-months (Part time).
39-month (Full Time) 75-month (Part Time)
- The project is on track – meets all expectations for this stage and will proceed to submission
- Further work is required to meet expectations for this stage, to be represented to the Faculty Postgraduate Research Progress Panel for approval
- The PGR is required to re-register for MPhil with a revised workplan for submission
- The PGR is required to withdraw
Faculty Postgraduate Research Progress Panel
The Faculty Postgraduate Progress Panel will consider all progression review outcomes.
If the outcome of any progression review identifies that progress is not been made at the expected level, you will need to meet with the Faculty Postgraduate Research Progress Panel for further discussion and one of the following outcomes will be recommended:
1. Additional work required
2. PGR should be re-registered on Master of Philosophy
3. Recommendation of withdrawal
You will be contacted following submission of your progression report should a meeting be required.
The Unsatisfactory Progress Procedure (UPP)
If at any stage during your research you aren’t making satisfactory progress, your faculty may initiate the Unsatisfactory Progress Procedure. This will involve setting objectives to help you progress with your research at the expected standard.
For PhD students who started October 2021 or earlier
This section provides key Information for Postgraduate Researchers (PGRs) on progression throughout your doctoral study. The information on this page applies to any PhD candidate registered prior to February 2022.
Below is a summary of the key points of the progression process.
In order to confirm your progression to PhD a recommendation must be made by the Dean (or their nominee) of the Faculty to the Research Degrees Committee:
- For full-time students this will be 12 months after initial registration.
- For part-time students this will be 24 months after initial registration.
Only in exceptional circumstances, is progression permitted before 12 months for full-time and 24 months for part-time.
The detailed arrangements for assessment prior to progression vary from one academic area to another. The following are minimum requirements set by the University:
- Students should submit a full written report on the research to-date and a detailed timetable for further work.
- The Supervisor is required to submit a full written report on the progress made by the student.
- The progression will be considered by a panel (Progression Review Panel) consisting of the Director of Postgraduate Research or their nominee and one or more members of academic staff.
- Reports from the student and the Supervisor are to be available two weeks prior to the meeting of the Progression Review Panel.
-  The student should be given the right to comment on any aspect of their Supervision in the absence of the Supervisors.
The progression viva must not go ahead until the panel/examiners are approved by the DPGR. The panel should have the necessary methodological and/or topic expertise and be independent of the student’s supervisory team.
This means:
- No intellectual input throughout
- There will not normally be any joint publications
-  No familial, sponsorship or other relationship
- The candidate may, however, know the examiners – may be a member of the same research group, met at a conference etc.
- The same principles should apply with regard to any potential relationship which might exist between either of the examiners and the supervisor(s).
- Additional statements are not normally accepted to justify a potential conflict of interest due to a relationship between either of the examiners, the supervisor(s) and the student
The panel should make one of the following recommendations:
- Candidate be permitted to progress to PhD.
- Further work is required by the candidate before progression is approved (to be approved by Chair's Action).
- Further work is required by the candidate before progression is approved. A further review will take place at a future time.
- Unsatisfactory Progress Procedure (previously Capability Procedure) to be initiated (either Preliminary or Formal).
Exceptionally, procedures could be instigated which could lead to the termination of the student's registration.
Further points to note are:
- One member of the panel is required to write a report on the review.
- A copy of the completed form should be given to the student (this is circulated to the student by the Faculty).
- Students must be informed of the decision of the Progression Review Panel.
- A student who is not permitted to progress registration may appeal against the decision.
Professional Doctorate - stage transfer
The requirements for the taught component of the Professional Doctorate (DBA and DPharm), including supplementary assessment, are set out in the Section 24 in the University's Regulations for Research Degrees (available on the Academic Quality Unit website.
Please also refer to the relevant Programme Specification for each Professional Doctorate particularly for the credit awarded to each module, found on the Learning, Teaching and Student Experience website.

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/research-students-intranet/SitePages/Progression.aspx

Postgraduate Researchers
PGR Journey
Getting Started
This page will help you find key information, understand the structure of your degree and ensure you, and your supervisors, can help you settle in your new status is a postgraduate researcher (PGR).
Induction
Our induction events for Postgraduate Researchers (PGRs) are designed to: 
- ensure that you are well prepared for your research degree
- familiarise you with doctoral-level study and begin your expert skills development
- help you meet other researchers within your research area and across the University
Key information
- Compulsory induction events for all new PGRs can be found in the schedule - all induction events are compulsory unless otherwise stated. Details of all induction sessions can be found on the PGR induction website.
- There is no need to book, simply turn up (at the venue shown or at the virtual session linked) at the time shown.
- Contact the BRDF team if you have any queries about induction.
Your First Month
To guide your first month we have developed a first month checklist for PGRs and a complementary first month checklist for supervisors, this is available on the  Getting Started section. Work your way through this list during your first month to ensure you have read all the information and resources.
Progression
Progression on your research degree will be considered at various stages throughout your registration.
PGR Support Across the University
You may find that you need some additional support throughout your research degree, that your supervisory team or other immediate colleagues are unable to help with. Further details about the broad range of services available across the University can be found in the following support document.
Writing for Publication
Your Supervisors should discuss with you opportunities for you to disseminate your research and thus develop your communication skills. The transmission of research outputs and the development of personal transferable skills is strongly encouraged.
It is worth bearing in mind that academic journals typically have a long lead time from first submission of a paper to actually seeing it in print. It is therefore worthwhile aiming to submit a paper while your research is still in progress although others will no doubt follow on after completion.
Intellectual property rights of students
Use of prior work and published work in thesis
- PGRs are permitted to incorporate in their thesis a limited amount of unpublished work undertaken prior to registration for their research degree
- PGRs are permitted to incorporate their own published work in a thesis on condition that the fact is recorded in the thesis together with the title, place and date of publication
- PGRs are not permitted to incorporate in a thesis material which has been included in a thesis submitted for a degree at this or any other University or approved degree awarding body except for the purpose of drawing attention, for reference purposes only, to such material, including calculations or the results of experimental work. Where such material is incorporated the fact must be recorded together with the title of the thesis, the date of the award of the degree and the name of the university or other degree-awarding body making the award.
A Statement of Principles Relating to the IPR of Student Research was approved by Senate in June 2009 and can be found below.
This includes a section about restricted access of theses in the library and university repository.
This should be read in conjunction with the University Regulations relating to IPR in work produced by students.
The Unsatisfactory Progress Procedure (UPP)
If at any stage during your research you aren’t making satisfactory progress, your Faculty may initiate the Unsatisfactory Progress Procedure. This will involve setting objectives to help you progress with your research at the expected standard.
Annual Leave
Designated study periods for PGRs incorporate the full academic year, excluding bank holidays and University closure days. You are expected to make good progress with your research; however, it is important for your wellbeing that you take breaks from time to time too.
Full-time and Part-time students are allowed 27 days annual leave per year; this is linked to your academic year based on your intake. e.g. if you started 1 June 2024, your annual leave entitlement will run from the 1 June 2024 to the 31 May 2025. Any annual leave must be approved by your supervisor:
Annual leave requests must be submitted prior to annual leave taking place.
Unused annual leave cannot be carried forward to the next academic year.
Annual leave must not impact the PGRs ability to meet submission of formal assessments i.e. progression points or thesis submission.
Annual Leave Guidance and the annual leave request form can be found on the documents section in the Postgraduate Researchers site.
Absences
It is recognised that PGRs can suffer illness or other adverse personal circumstances which affect their ability to attend and engage with their programme of study.
The University must be notified of any absence period and this must be requested via the routes outlined in the PGR Annual Leave and Absence Guidance found on the documents section in the Postgraduate Researchers site.
Please use the absence request form to formally notify the University of absence.
Suspension
In normal circumstances the student should apply for their own suspension.
PGRs who wish to suspend from their programme of study should initiate the process by using the electronic form in e:Vision as soon as possible.
Upon receipt of your suspension request, the PGRA Team will contact you and your supervisors for relevant paperwork and supporting documents that must be provided to progress the suspension request with the Director of Postgraduate Research. The suspension request will then require formal approval at Faculty Postgraduate Research Sub-Committee.
Reasons for suspensions might include:
- illness;
- personal difficulties of a serious nature;
- maternity/ paternity/ adoption leave;
- bereavement.
Suspensions of studies must be applied for at the time the when the difficulties arise, not retrospectively. The exception to this is if you require a suspension following an emergency situation; in these instances we would expect a request to be submitted within 1-month. Fee liability charges are calculated from the date written confirmation of suspension is received at the University, or a later date if advance notification is provided. The University does not backdate suspensions. Non-attendance at the University does not constitute an approved period of suspension.
Only in exceptional circumstances may a Principal Supervisor apply on behalf of the student to the Faculty Postgraduate Research Sub-Committee for suspension.
Please also note that you will be expected to return at the end of your suspension period. You will have your enrolment launched and fees activated. It is therefore critical that you maintain contact with your Faculty and confirm your intentions.
Further guidance
If you are in receipt of sponsorship or any other external funding it is important that you notify such agencies of you suspension of study. Please include their approval with your University's suspension request.
Moreover, UKRI funded students must apply to the Research Council for permission to suspend their studies. It is essential that this is applied for at the time difficulties are experienced and not after the deadline for final thesis submission.
Student Registry Services (Research) are responsible for sending suspension requests to all Research Councils. Generally the support documents required for the suspension request are the same as listed above, although specific Research Council guidelines should be followed. Please email your Faculty Administrator for advice.
If you are studying with us on a Student Visa (previously Tier 4 Visa) we further advise that you contact the International Student Support and UKVI Compliance to discuss the implication of suspending your studies with them directly before applying to suspend your studies.
Extension
The PGR in consultation with their Principal Supervisor may apply to the Faculty Postgraduate Research Degrees Sub-Committee for an extension to the registration period.
Extension requests are expected show that some unforeseen circumstances have arisen which have adversely affected the PGRs progress, against which precautions were not possible.
Please note, where applicable, suspension of study should be applied for at the time difficulties arise which adversely affect the PGRs progress, these.
Extension requests should be submitted to the PGRA Team who will prepare the request for Faculty Postgraduate Research Degrees Sub-Committee. The extension request form can be found in the documents section in the Postgraduate Researchers site.
Following approval at Faculty level, all extension requests must also be approved by the Research Degrees Sub-Committee before a formal outcome of the extension request can be provided.
An extension is treated as a serious matter and should not be regarded as a matter of course.
An application for an extension must be made before the expiry of the PGRs normal period of registration. This is particularly important if the extension request is required to support a visa extension and Confirmation of Studies (CAS). It is strongly advised that the request to extend is submitted at least three months in advance of expiry of registration and should not be made retrospectively, i.e. after the registration end date has passed. For example if the final date of registration is 30 September, the extension request should be undertaken before the summer break.
The request needs to include the following information:
- a statement by the PGR giving the reasons why the extension is required and the proposed new expected date for submission;
- a thesis planner indicating the timetable of research for the requested extended submission date;
- a statement in support of the request for the extension to the submission date by the Principal Supervisor.
Any request to extend must contain all the above elements (statement by PGR, statement by supervisor and thesis planner) and the approval process will inevitably be delayed if full information is not provided. It is also important that the "end date", that is the final expected thesis submission date, is clear and consistent across all of extension request documents. Lastly it is essential that the planner is realistic and allows the Supervisor time to provide meaningful feedback on the thesis.
The request should be submitted electronically to thePGRA Team
On full receipt of the required information and approval by both Faculty Postgraduate Research Sub-Committee and Research Degrees Sub-Committee, PGRs will receive formal notification by letter from the Postgraduate Research Administration Team. If a new student card is required please pop to the Hub so a new one can be printed.
Further guidance
As above, if you are an international PGR who requires an extension of studies to support an extension of visa, it is essential that you begin the process well in advance of either your end date passing and/or visa expiring. Advice and guidance in extending your visa is given here:
UBU's Advice Centre and ubu-visa@bradford.ac.uk
You can use your approved extension documents to support your visa application but please note applying for visa extension is a separate approval process.
If you are in receipt of sponsorship or any other external funding it is important that you notify such agencies of your extension of study. Please include their approval with your university's extension request.
Moreover, UKRI funded PGRs who require extension of studies have to apply to the relevant Research Council for permission. It is essential that that this is applied for at the time difficulties are experienced and not after the deadline for final thesis submission.
Fees are payable during an approved extension period. The fees team will be able to advise the fees you will incur should you extend your registration.
Student Registry Services (Research) are responsible for sending extension requests to all Research Councils. Generally the support documents required for the extension request are the same as listed above, although specific Research Council guidelines should be followed.
Please email your Faculty Administrator for advice.
Writing up stage - completion of thesis and examination
Writing-up status refers to a period of time at the end of a PGRs registration when they have completed any experimentation and/or data collection.
All PGRs should aim to submit their thesis when their minimum period of registration expires. Therefore, the writing-up period should be viewed as a period to finalise the thesis for submission, undertake a viva and graduate.
More information about minimum and maximum periods of registration.
PhD Students
Full-time Students
- Full-time doctoral students normally transfer to writing-up status after their minimum period of registration (three years), if they do not submit their thesis.
- The writing-up period for Full-time doctoral students is usually one year only.
- For PGRs who joined February 2022 intake onwards; transfer to writing up will be confirmed as part of the 33-month progression review and applied at 36-months of study.
- For PGRs who started before February 2022, the transfer is done via a form (Transfer to Writing up) which can be found in the documents section in the Research Students SharePoint site. Once approved the form is sent to the Postgraduate Research Administration Team to change the mode of attendance code, unless, exceptionally, the Faculty/Department concerned indicates that a particular student is not ready for transfer to writing-up status.
Part-time Students
- Part-time doctoral students may apply for transfer to writing-up status after their minimum period of registration (four years), if they do not submit their thesis.
- For PGRs who joined February 2022 intake onwards; transfer to writing up will be confirmed as part of the 66-month progression review and applied at 72-months of study.
- For PGRs who started before February 2022, the transfer is done via a form (Transfer to Writing up) which can be found in the documents section in the Research Students SharePoint site.
- This transfer will only be approved if their Faculty/Department are able to confirm that they have completed the experimentation/data collection phase, are "writing-up" and will actually submit their thesis during this final stage of studies.
- It is common for part-time students to transfer only in year five or six of their programme.
- The writing-up period for Part-time doctoral students therefore varies, but is up to a maximum of three years.
For all PhD students who registered from February 2022 onwards, confirmation of your eligibility to transfer to writing up stage will be confirmed at the 33-month (66-month part-time) progression assessment. If you are a part-time PGR who is ready to transfer before 66-months, i.e. from 48-months onwards, please speak with your supervisor so the 66-month progression milestone can be brought forward.
MPhil Students
Full-time Students
- Ful-time MPhil students normally transfer to writing-up after their minimum registration period of registration (12-months), if they do not submit their thesis.
- The writing up period is a maximum of 12-months
- Writing up is confirmed via a transfer to writing up form completed by the supervisory team and PGR. This can be found in the documents section in the Research Students SharePoint site. The form is sent to the Postgraduate Research Administration Team to change the mode of attendance code, unless, exceptionally, the Faculty concerned indicates that a particular student is not ready for transfer to writing-up status.
Part-time Students
- Ful-time MPhil students normally transfer to writing-up after their minimum registration period of registration (24-months), if they do not submit their thesis.
- The writing up period is a maximum of 24-months
- Writing up is confirmed via a transfer to writing up form completed by the supervisory team and PGR. This can be found in the documents section in the Research Students SharePoint site. The form is sent to the Postgraduate Research Administration Team to change the mode of attendance code, unless, exceptionally, the Faculty concerned indicates that a particular student is not ready for transfer to writing-up status.
Please note: all students should submit in advance of their writing-up period ending, as full use of University Library, email and access to internet and networking facilities will be given during this time. The Faculty/Department must inform the student of their policies with regard to Faculty/Department-based facilities.

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/appeals-misconduct-and-complaints-intranet

Student Casework
Help with your appeal
You can approach a Student Advisor in the Students' Union via email in the first instance (ubu-advice@bradford.ac.uk), for assistance with the preparation and submission of your appeal or by phone on (01274) 233300
For further information in relation to Academic advice, you can visit the Students Union Website.

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/career-and-employability-services-intranet

Career and Employability Services
Career and Employability Services
We offer a welcoming, supportive environment where you can access impartial careers information, advice and guidance from professionally qualified staff.
We are delighted to welcome students to our modern Careers space for face-to-face appointments. We also offer remote video and phone appointments, and our events workshops are a combination of on-campus and online activities. See more details on our appointments page.
Find links to our services, information and resources for current students, graduates, staff and businesses below, and please get in touch if you have any questions or comments.
See our About Us page for more details about our team and our statements of service.
Get in touch with us
To speak to us or to book an appointment
Telephone: +44 (0)1274 234991 (ext 4991 for internal calls)
Book your appointment online at Handshake Career Centre
For general enquiries please email: careers@bradford.ac.uk
You can also find individual contact details on our About Us page.
Opening times
- Monday 09:00-17:00
- Tuesday 09:00-17:00
- Wednesday 09:00-17:00
- Thursday 09:00-17:00
- Friday 09:00-16:00
Remote appointments
Remote appointments (by video, phone and email) can be booked through the Handshake Career Centre
Please remember to include your contact details and preferred contact method
If you are outside the UK, please bear in mind the potential time difference between UK time (GMT) and your location.

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/chaplaincy-services-intranet

Chaplaincy Services
CHAPLAINCY STATEMENT OF SERVICE
INTRODUCTION
The Chaplaincy is positioned within the Student Services area of Student Central, but its remit and its work extends beyond it; for example, the Chaplaincy is available for staff as well as students and it offers support to the different sections of the University community concerning University policies which involve religion and belief.
MISSION
In its scope and aims, the Chaplaincy encompasses both religious and non-religious worldviews. The Chaplaincy aims:
- to provide pastoral support to any member of the University, staff, or student.
- to develop ways in which the spiritual development and well-being of students and staff of all faiths and none may be promoted and supported.
- to advise the University on matters regarding spirituality, religion and belief which affect its life and work, maintaining good practice in relation to equality and diversity matters.
- to work closely with the Centre for Inclusion and Diversity (CfID) to promote the awareness of different religious and faith issues which impinge upon the teaching, learning and research of the University.
- to strengthen links between the University and faith groups within other local institutions and the wider local community.
WHAT WE OFFER
The Chaplaincy provides opportunities for spiritual and religious expression, development and nurture and opportunities to explore different worldviews.
Specifically, we provide:
- A team of chaplains and interfaith advisors, most of whom are volunteers, offering support and covering different faiths and traditions.
- A chaplain who is available at set times. On campus usually on Tuesdays, Wednesdays, and Thursdays.
- An emergency on-call service to the Co-ordinating Chaplain outside office hours, via the designated mobile phone number.
- Information about how to contact a key member of those faiths and traditions not covered by the team.
- Confidential pastoral support and consultation.
- Opportunities for discussion and reflection about spirituality, beliefs, ethics, and life events.
- Occasional and seasonal meditations and worship which relate to the University context.
- Up-to-date contact information about local spiritual resources and places of worship: churches, mosques, and temples, etc.
- Co-ordination of the Staff Forum (via Teams) for Faith Spirituality and Belief.
- Information about beliefs and customs of the major religions and worldviews, focused especially upon how they affect people interacting in a university setting;
- Regular weekly drop-in opportunities to join the FAB club (Faith and Belief) for informal support and to discover more about UBU religious student societies.
- Provision of Weekly Communion Service with the Fountains Church team.
LEVELS OF SERVICE:
You are entitled to expect that the Chaplaincy will:
- serve students and staff of all faiths and none.
- provide confidential pastoral support in accordance with established understandings of confidentiality. If we are not able to provide suitable support, we will suggest others who would be able to provide the required support.
- respond adequately to questions concerning beliefs, spirituality, and ethics.
- provide opportunities to celebrate Faith events, discussions and other worldview events which are of a high quality, and which are accessible and inclusive for all.
- foster mutual respect and understanding between different belief systems.
EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES
The Chaplaincy is committed to valuing diversity and does this specifically by promoting respect for all different faiths, traditions, and beliefs, and serving staff and students equally, regardless of race, religion, gender, disability, marital status, social class, age, or sexual preference. All forms of unlawful direct or indirect discrimination or unequal treatment or unethical behaviour will be challenged. The Faith Spacse are designated as Safe Space for all.

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/research-students-intranet/SitePages/PGR-Connect.aspx

Postgraduate Researchers
PGR Connect
PGR Connect is a PGR-led peer support scheme that aims to offer a support network for our postgraduate researchers. The scheme strives to foster a sense of belonging and community, help PGRs adjust to or progress in their studies, and mitigate the sense of isolation that can sometimes develop due to the unique way postgraduate researchers study and work.
For further information please see the PGR Connect site.

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/it-services-intranet/SitePages/computers.aspx

IT Services
Computers and laptops
Important
When using our services, you must abide by the IT Services Acceptable Use Policy
Computers on campus - cluster rooms
There are several computer rooms on campus - these are known as ‘cluster rooms’.
Note: After you've signed on to a cluster room computer you'll first need to open the Horizon service (from the desktop or Start menu) to access specialist software, Microsoft Office apps and your OneDrive files.
Access software from off campus
The Horizon service hosts the software you need for your course and it is available on all the cluster room computers on campus - but you can also access software on your own device (via Horizon), even when you're not physically on campus.
Borrow a laptop
Please find information about borrowing a laptop on the Library site.
Personal devices
Support for personal devices is limited to accessing University software and services and is on an advice and best-endeavours basis.
Note about operating systems
Windows is the University's supported and recommended environment. The cluster computers and loan laptops have Windows installed.

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/it-services-intranet/SitePages/teams-for-students.aspx

IT Services
Microsoft Teams for students
Microsoft Teams is part of the University's Microsoft 365 suite - along with Outlook for email, OneDrive for file storage, and other sevices.
You can use Teams to collaborate with your fellow students. Your lecturer may also use Microsoft Teams to deliver online teaching sessions, or to facilitate group work.
How can I access Microsoft Teams?
On a computer or laptop
You can simply use the Teams web app in your browser by going to https://teams.microsoft.com - however, to get the fullest benefit of teams, we recommend installing the Teams desktop app. To install the desktop app:
1. In a browser, go to: https://office.com/apps 
2. Sign in with your University username with '@bradford.ac.uk' appended - for example, jrblogg2@bradford.ac.uk - and your University password.
3. Select Teams from the list of apps displayed.
4. Go to the three dots at the top right, and then select the Download the desktop app
When join a Teams meeting - by selecting the link in the email invite - you will have the option to open the meeting in the Teams app, or alternatively within a browser window. If you choose to open the meeting in a browser window, make sure you select 'Allow' when your browser prompts you for access to your mic and camera (you'll then be able to turn these on or off as you wish in the actual meeting, by using the meeting control buttons).
On a mobile or tablet
If you want to join Teams meetings from your smartphone or tablet, install the Teams app on your device by following these steps:
1. Search your device's app store for Microsoft Teams and install the app.
2. Open the Teams app on your device.
3. Sign in with your University username with '@bradford.ac.uk' appended - for example, jrblogg2@bradford.ac.uk - and your University password.
What devices do I need to use with Microsoft Teams?
- You’ll need a microphone to be able to speak in calls and meetings. Use headphones with a microphone if you can. Remember, it's good practise to keep your microphone muted until you need to speak, so that it doesn’t pick up sounds around you.
- To listen, use your headphones - or your device’s speaker if you don’t have headphones.
- To share your video, you’ll need a webcam, or a camera that’s integrated into your device.
Set your devices to work with Microsoft Teams by going to the Settings at the top right and then Devices
If you experience a delay with your video or audio during meetings, this will most likely be due to poor network connection. Turning off your camera can help to improve bandwidth. It’s also best to use a wired connection where possible, rather than WiFi.
Teams meeting control bar functions
Depending on the permissions set by the meeting organiser, you can use the buttons on the meeting control bar to:
- Share or stop sharing your video.
- Mute or unmute your microphone.
- Share your desktop or individual windows.
- Raise your hand to indicate you have something to contribute.
- Chat with participants.
- See a list of participants.
- Leave the meeting.
- Access more advanced features.
What else can I use Microsoft Teams for?
Teams is a platform for communicating and collaborating with other people - both internal to the University, and external. Using Teams you can:
- Chat: One-to-one, or in a group.
- Collaborate within teams and channels: A ‘team’ is a space you can set up to enable a group of people to work together. ‘Channels’ are spaces you can create within a team to organise discussions and content into themes. Within each channel you can collaborate on files, chat, and hold online meetings.
Important: When you create a team, ensure you set it as Private. ‘Private’ means that only you, and the people you add as members (this includes any external people you add), can see the content and chat in the team - whereas ‘Public’ means that staff and students in the University would be able to join the team without requesting permission and would be able to view and edit your content.
- Share and collaborate on files: Files can be shared either within channels, or within the chat feature, and Microsoft files (Word, PowerPoint etc) can be edited by multiple people at the same time.
- Make calls: Call internal members of the University by finding them in the search bar in Teams and then selecting the video or audio call option.
- Have online meetings: You can schedule a meeting with other people via the Calendar button in Teams. And if you’re invited to a Teams meeting, just select the Join Microsoft Teams Meeting link in the invite you've received when it's time to join.

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/it-services-intranet/SitePages/printing,-scanning-and-photocopying.aspx

IT Services
Printing, scanning and photocopying
Important
When using our services, you must abide by the IT Services Acceptable Use Policy
Printing credit allowance for students (and check your balance)
Student printing is free (but not unlimited) and is capped at £20 per year starting from 1 September.
This facility is strictly for academic purposes only and must not be used for printing non-academic studies related content.
To help you to keep track of your £20 allowance, here are the costs applied for printing, per sheet:
- A4: Colour 8p, Greyscale 3p, Colour duplex 12p, Greyscale duplex 5p
- A3: Colour 15p, Greyscale 6p, Colour duplex 27p, Greyscale duplex 10p
To stay within your £20 limit, and to save on paper, please be mindful and only print what you need. The table below shows how costs can add up, depending on the number of pages you print:
- 1 page (A4): Colour 8p, Greyscale 3p, Colour duplex 12p, Greyscale duplex 5p
- 5 pages (A4): Colour 40p, Greyscale 15p, Colour duplex 60p, Greyscale duplex 25p
- 10 pages (A4): Colour 80p, Greyscale 30p, Colour duplex £1.20, Greyscale duplex 50p
- 25 pages (A4): Colour £2, Greyscale 75p, Colour duplex £3, Greyscale duplex £1.25
- 50 pages (A4): Colour £4, Greyscale £1.50, Colour duplex £6, Greyscale duplex £2.50
- 100 pages (A4): Colour £8, Greyscale £3, Colour duplex £12, Greyscale duplex £5
- 250 pages (A4): Colour £20, Greyscale £7.50, Colour duplex £30, Greyscale duplex £12.50
- 1 page (A3): Colour 15p, Greyscale 6p, Colour duplex 28p, Greyscale duplex 10p
- 5 pages (A3): Colour 75p, Greyscale 30p, Colour duplex £1.36, Greyscale duplex 50p
- 10 pages (A3): Colour £1.50, Greyscale 60p, Colour duplex £2.70, Greyscale duplex £1
- 25 pages (A3): Colour £3.75, Greyscale £1.50, Colour duplex £6.76, Greyscale duplex £2.50
- 50 pages (A3): Colour £7.50, Greyscale £3, Colour duplex £15.50, Greyscale duplex £5
- 100 pages (A3): Colour £15, Greyscale £6, Colour duplex £27, Greyscale duplex £10
- 250 pages (A3): Colour £37.50, Greyscale £15, Colour duplex £67.50, Greyscale duplex £25
How can I check my printing credit balance?
To check your printing credit balance, go to: https://papercut.bradford.ac.uk:9192 and sign in with your University username and password. Note: You need to be on campus with your device connected to eduroam (campus WiFi) to access this link.
What if I reach my printing credit limit?
You’ll see a message that you have no more credit available when you try to print. In exceptional circumstances only, a small amount of credit may be additionally applied to your account as a one-off; however, this is at the discretion of IT Services. Please ask at the IT Bar in the Library.
Note: If you have a Learner Support Profile (LSP) that supports the need for increased printing to help with your studies, please contact the Disability Service to discuss arrangements for permanent adjustments to your printing credit.
Print from a University Computer
1. Within the document you want to print, select File - Print (or press Ctrl+P on your keyboard).
2. Select the PaperCut print queue.
3. If you want to change printing preferences (such as Colour or Duplex modes), select Printer Properties and make any desired changes.
4. Select Print when you’re ready.
5. Releast the print at the printer
Release your printing at a printer
1. Go to a printer and hold your University card against the card reader beneath the control panel display. If you’re asked to sign in at this point, enter your University username with @bradford.ac.uk appended (for example jrblogg2@bradford.ac.uk) and your University password.
2. Press Print Release on the home screen.
3. Select what you want to print from the list displayed by pressing on the check box next to the specific printing, and then press Print or Print All.
4. Sign out by pressing the Home icon at the left of the screen, and then Sign Out at the top of the screen.
Print wirelessly
General notes:
- You can print files from a mobile device to be printed at the printer within 24 hours.
- Documents will be printed in their original format (that is, documents in colour will print in colour, and multi-page documents will print double-sided). If you require any formatting or other changes, you will need to save the document in one of the following supported formats before sending to print: Microsoft Office, PDF, JPG, GIF, PNG, BMP, TXT.
- You can modify a copy of your document for the purposes of printing to receive your copies in your preferred format.
Android
1. To set up the app:
  a. Before you start, make sure you're connected to eduroam (WiFi).
  b. Go to https://papercutmobile.bradford.ac.uk:9164/client-setup/known-host/android.html
  c. Sign in with your University username with @bradford.ac.uk appended and your University password.
  d. Select Android Set-up and then follow the instructions to download and set up wireless printing on your device.
2. To print:
  a. Open the app from which you want to print a document.
  b. Select the menu (three dots) in the top right corner and then select Share.
  c. Select Print, select the print driver you’d like the print to go to, and then select Print.
  d. Release the print at the printer.
iOS
1. To set up the app:
  a. Before you start, make sure you're connected to eduroam (WiFi).
  b. Go to https://papercutmobile.bradford.ac.uk:9164/client-setup/known-host/ios.html  
  c. Sign in with your University username with @bradford.ac.uk appended (for example jrblogg2@bradford.ac.uk) and your University password.
  d. Select iOS Set-up and then select Download.
  e. Select Allow when you see the message ‘This website is trying to download a configuration profile; do you want to allow this?’.
  f. Select Close when download has finished.
  g. Select the iOS Settings icon to open settings.
  h. Select General > VPN & Device Management.
  i. Select PaperCut Mobility print for iOS under the downloaded profile header.
  j. Select Install and then enter your passcode to continue.
  k. Select Install and then Done to finish the installation.
2. To print:
  a.Open the app from which you want to print a document.
  b. Select the Share icon at the bottom of the document you want to print.
  c. Select the Print icon and select the print driver you’d like the print to go to.
  d. Select any options you require, and then select Print.
  e. Release the print at the printer (see the ‘Release your printing at a printer' section above).
Windows laptop
1. To set up the app:
  a. Before you start, make sure you're connected to eduroam (WiFi).
  b. Go to: https://papercutmobile.bradford.ac.uk:9164/client-setup/known-host/windows.html 
  c. Select Download to install the mobility print installer. 
  d. Run the Mobility Print installer to install your printers.
  e. Select required language and accept the agreement.
  f. Select Papercut (UoB) to add this to Windows.
  g. Sign in with your University username with @bradford.ac.uk appended (for example jrblogg2@bradford.ac.uk) and your University password.
2. To print:
  a. Open the content you want to print and select Print. 
  b. From the printer drop down list, select Papercut (UoB) and then select Print. 
  c. Release the print at the printer (see the ‘Release your printing at a printer' section above).
Mac
1. To set up the app:
  a. Before you start, make sure you're connected to eduroam (WiFi).
  b. Go to: https://papercutmobile.bradford.ac.uk:9164/client-setup/known-host/macos.html 
  c. Select Download to install the mobility print installer. 
  d. Run the Mobility Print installer to install your printers.
2. To print:
  a. Open the content you want to print and select Print. 
  b. From the printer drop down list, select Papercut (UoB) and then select Print. 
  c. If asked to sign in, ensure you enter your University username with @bradford.ac.uk appended (for example jrblogg2@bradford.ac.uk) and your University password.
  d. Release the print at the printer (see the ‘Release your printing at a printer' section above).
Chromebook
1. To set up the app:
  a. Before you start, make sure you're connected to eduroam (WiFi).
  b. Go to: https://papercutmobile.bradford.ac.uk:9164/client-setup/known-host/chrome.html 
  c. Select Download to install the mobility print installer. 
  d. Run the Mobility Print installer to install your printers.
2. To print:
  a. Open the content you want to print and select Print. 
  b. From the printer drop down list, select the mobility print service that has the Papercut icon (a green ‘P’) and then select Print. 
  c. Sign in with your University username with @bradford.ac.uk appended (for example jrblogg2@bradford.ac.uk) and your University password.
  d. Release the print at the printer (see the ‘Release your printing at a printer' section above).
Print on your own paper
Note: Printing defaults to black and white (monochrome), and double sided.
1. In most applications, choose File - Print.
2. Select the PaperCut print queue.
3. Select Properties and then select the Printing Shortcuts tab.
4. From the 'Paper source' drop down list, select Tray 1.
5. Make any other changes as required.
6. Select OK and then Print.
Note: After 24 hours, any document sent to print, but not released (as per the steps below), will be automatically deleted.
When you're ready to print:
1. Open Tray 1 on the right-hand side of the printer.
2. Place your paper on the tray and adjust the paper guides to fit as necessary.
3. Hold your University card against the card reader to the left of the screen on the printer.
4. Press Print on the home screen.
5. Select what you want to print from the list displayed by pressing the check box next to the specific print job, and then press Print or Print All.
6. Sign out by pressing the Home icon at the left of the screen and then Sign Out at the top of the screen.
Scan to email
1. Place the copy on the glass plate and close the lid (multiple loose sheets can be placed face-up on the document feeder).
2. Hold your University card against the card reader beneath the control panel display.
3. Press Scan on the home screen and then select the Scan To My Email option. The email will be sent to your University email account only which is pre-populated and cannot be changed. You can change the email subject and document name (which defaults to 'Scanned document').
4. The default setting for the document will be single sided, PDF, with a small file size and 200dpi resolution. To change these default settings, press Options.
5. Press the Send button to begin scanning.
6. Sign out by pressing the Home icon at the left of the screen, and then Sign Out at the top of the screen.
Scan to OneDrive
Note:
- On your first scan attempt, you’ll need to sign into your OneDrive to grant access to your OneDrive. You’ll receive an email with a link to sign in. In the email, select the Login to OneDrive for Business link and sign in using your University username with @bradford.ac.uk appended (for example jrblogg2@bradford.ac.uk) and your University password.
- In the ‘Permissions request’ dialogue box that appears, select Consent on behalf of your organisation - Accept. You’ll then see a Fantastic! You did it! box appear.
1. Place the original on the glass plate and close the lid (multiple loose sheets can be placed face up on the document feeder).
2. Hold your University card against the card reader beneath the control panel display.
3. Press Scan on the home screen and then select the Scan To My OneDrive option. You can change the document name if needed. The default setting for the document will be single sided, PDF, with a small file size and 200dpi resolution. To change the defaults press Options.
4. Press the Send button to begin scanning.
5. Sign out by pressing the Home icon at the left of the screen, and then Sign Out at the top of the screen.
Your scan will now be placed in the /Apps/Scans for Papercut MF folder on your OneDrive. After every subsequent scan to OneDrive, you’ll receive an email notification with a link to the scanned file.
Photocopy
1. Place the original on the glass plate and close the lid (multiple loose sheets can be placed face up on the document feeder).
2. Hold your University card against the card reader beneath the control panel display.
3. Press Copy on the screen.
4. Select from the options on the screen to make any changes required (for example, colour, double sided or size). Note: Photocopying defaults to black and white (monochrome). For colour, press the Color / Black option, select Color and then press OK.
5. Select the number of copies required at the bottom right of the screen.
6. If you wish to see what your document will look like, press the Touch to scan and preview area on the screen. After scanning, an image of your document will be displayed in the preview area.
7. Press Copy.
8. Sign out by pressing the Home icon at left of the screen. Then press Sign Out at the top of the screen.

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/it-services-intranet/SitePages/wifi.aspx

IT Services
eduroam (WiFi)
Important policies
You must abide by the IT Services Acceptable Use Policy, the Mobile Device Policy and Terms of Use and the JANET eduroam Policy
Connecting to eduroam on campus
You only need to connect to eduroam once. Subsequently, you'll be able to connect on campus without authentication. If your device defaults to a different network, you can ensure your device connects to eduroam by going to your WiFi settings, selecting the network that you don't wish to connect to in future and choosin Forget this network
Upon completion of your studies or employment at the University, you must remove the eduroam profile from your devices.
Does your visitor need WiFi access?
If you have a visitor who needs WiFi access, please see the details on the eduroam Visitor Access page.
Connecting to eduroam at another institution
The JANET web site displays a list of UK institutions where eduroam is available
If you visit another site, you should connect automatically, however you may need to change the configuration of your device if the site uses an older encryption version. Please check the website of the institution you are visiting. University of Bradford uses the encryption scheme WPA2 and AES, however some sites use WPA and TKIP.
A 'home' site is the institution where you are registered. A 'visitor' site is the institution you visit.
Notes
- The wireless network (SSID) address to connect to at Bradford is eduroam
- Bradford operates a JANET Roaming Service Tier 2 visited service.
- The eduroam service at Bradford does not use any application or interception proxies.
- Further information about eduroam and the JANET Roaming Service (eduroam within the UK) is available from the eduroam federation’s website and the JISC website

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/it-services-intranet/SitePages/usernames-and-passwords.aspx

IT Services
Your IT account
You must abide by the IT Services Acceptable Use Policy and the Password Policy.
How to sign into the University's online services
- Canvas, Computers in cluster rooms, e:Vision, eduroam (WiFi), Email, Horizon, Library Record, Microsoft 365 services, PebblePad, ServiceNow, University Portal, University intranet
  - Sign in with your University username with @bradford.ac.uk (e.g., jrblogg2@bradford.ac.uk) and your University password.
  - Note: Your email has dots between initials and surname (e.g., j.r.bloggs2@bradford.ac.uk).
- Library eResources
  - Sign in using only your University username (e.g., jrblogg2) and University password.
Manage your IT account
Go to https://myaccount.microsoft.com at any time, where you can:
- Change your password (see the next section below).
- View your recent sign-in activity, where you can check for unusual activity to see if someone is trying to guess your password, if an attacker successfully signed in to your account, and from what location.
- Add or update your multi factor authentication methods - used for verifying your sign-ins and resetting your password if you forget it.
- Manage the devices which are connected to your University account and disable them if they are lost or stolen.
Tip: If you are already signed in to a Microsoft 365 service, for example, Outlook on the Web or OneDrive, you can get to this page quickly by selecting your profile at the top right of the screen and choosing View account
Password advice
In addition to the guidance below, please see section 3 of the Password Policy
Dos:
- Change your password frequently.
- Only include letters and numbers (no special characters, like exclamation marks)
- Make it at least 12 characters (there must be at least one uppercase character, lowercase character, and number in the first eight characters).
- Passphrases, including groups of random words are recommended as good strong password choices.
- Don’t write it down.
- If you think someone knows your password, change it immediately and report it
- Understand that the University will never ask you to confirm your password by email or text. Emails and texts requesting these details are phishing attempts from people who are trying to steal your account details. Delete them without responding.
Don'ts:
- Never give your password to anyone (even IT Services staff).
- Don't use your name, username, or any other easily obtained information in any form. For example, 'jrbloggs' cannot have the password 'jrbloggs' or 'jrBloggsisAce'.
- Don't include non-alphanumeric characters (for example, question marks or exclamation marks).
- Don't use spaces or non-English characters.
- Don't use the same password that you use for personal accounts.
- Don't use your University username and password to sign into websites or services you don't recognise.
- Don't sign into sites if they don't display the padlock symbol next to the web address field.
- Don't leave a signed in computer unattended - and make sure you sign out properly when you are finished.
- How to set a new password
How to set a new password
If you know your password and just want to change it, go to https://myaccount.microsoft.com and select Change Password
If you ever forget your password you can reset it by selecting the 'Forgotten your password?' link that can be found on the University sign-in page, or by going to https://passwordreset.microsoftonline.com. You'll then need to follow this process on the screen:
- Enter your University username with @bradford.ac.uk appended (for example: jrblogg2@bradford.ac.uk), then enter the validation characters displayed on the screen, and select Next
- Select how you want to receive your verification code from the list that will be displayed.
- Enter the verification code that will be sent by whichever method you chose above, and select Next
- Enter a new password, and enter it again to confirm it.
- Select Finish. You should see a confirmation message on the screen
Note: If you have configured and connected any devices for accessing your University email or the campus WiFi (eduroam), once you've set a new password you’ll also need to go into the settings on the device and update your password there.
If you see a message that says you are not registered for self-service password reset (SSPR), please call IT Services on 01274 233333

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/it-services-intranet/SitePages/software.aspx

IT Services
Software
- **Adobe Express**
  - Students and staff have access to Adobe Express for the duration of their course or employment at the University.
- **Assistive and productivity software**
  - Assistive software is available that can aid productivity and help with different kinds of needs.
- **Adobe Creative Cloud Enterprise Desktop - Staff only**
  - Available for staff in the Software Centre on staff devices.
  - Staff can also download this for free on up to two personally owned devices for work at home purposes.
- **AMOS**
  - Available for personal computers (students and staff).
- **ChemDraw**
  - The University holds a full licence with Revvity which permits students and staff to use ChemDraw in Horizon and also to install ChemDraw on any device.
- **EndNote**
  - Most students do not need EndNote just to reference their work.
  - Available versions:
    - Browser version (no install needed): EndNote Online
    - Desktop version: If you have issues identifying the product key, see guidance from the Library.
- **Horizon**
  - For students and staff: access learning and teaching software from anywhere, at any time, via any device using this virtual desktop service.
  - Horizon also provides access to OneDrive files and Microsoft Office.
- **MATLAB and Simulink**
  - Available for personal computers (students and staff).
- **Microsoft Office apps**
  - Students and staff have access to Microsoft 365 as part of their University IT accounts.
  - They can install Microsoft Office via Microsoft 365 apps free of charge on up to five personally-owned devices.
  - Access lasts for the duration of their course or employment.
  - After leaving the University, Microsoft 365 apps will go into reduced functionality mode. Copy any needed files before departure.
- **Minitab**
  - Available for personal computers (students and staff).
- **NVivo**
  - Available for personal computers (students and staff).
  - Outside the United Kingdom, usage is restricted to a maximum of three months.
- **SPSS**
  - Available for personal computers (students and staff).
Important
When using University IT services, you must abide by the IT Services Acceptable Use Policy.

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/it-services-intranet/SitePages/email.aspx

IT Services
Email
Important
When using our services, You must abide by the IT Services Acceptable Use Policy
Accessing your email
You can access your email in the following ways:
-  via the web at https://outlook.com/owa/bradford.ac.uk
-  from within the University Portal
-  install the Outlook mobile app
Note: Did you know you can install Office 365 on your own device?
Beware of phishing emails
The University will never ask you to confirm your password by email. Emails requesting details are malicious phishing emails intended to steal your account.

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/it-services-intranet/SitePages/contact-us.aspx

IT Services
Contact us
Log a ticket (to report an IT issue or to make an IT request)
- Log a ticket via ServiceNow - please check the service status information (on the right) first, where known issues are published.
- To report an urgent matter, please call 01274 233333
Check the progress of your ticket (or escalate it)
You can check the progress of a ticket you've already logged. If you need to escalate your ticket please follow the escalation process
Visit us in person at the IT Bar
During term time the IT Bar (located in the J. B. Priestley Library) is open 10:00 to 16:00, Monday to Friday (please note the opening times over Easter).
Colleagues on the IT Bar can help with:
- Your University username and password, and multi factor authentication (MFA)
- Accessing online services
- Installing University software
- Connecting to eduroam (campus WiFi)
- University-owned device hardware fixes (advice only for personal device hardware issues)
- General IT queries

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/it-services-intranet/SitePages/leaving-the-university.aspx

IT Services
Leaving the University
This information applies to you if your University status has been marked as 'Completed' and you've received an email telling you that your IT account will close.
Your access to email, Microsoft 365 services, and other standard IT account services will remain available for 90 days from the date of the email. Please follow the steps below before your IT account closes
Important note about Horizon: Your access to Horizon - which hosts specialist software applications and desktop versions of Microsoft Office - is discontinued from the date you receive the email. However, please note that you can still access the web versions of Word, Excel, PowerPoint, and OneDrive on campus cluster computers throughout the 90 day period - just sign into the computer, open Edge (web browser) from the Start menu, and navigate to www.microsoft365.com
Your email, files, and software
Let the people you want to remain in contact with know an alternative email address, or how else they can contact you, after you've left (you may wish to consider adding an automatic reply on your University email account for the remainder of the time it's still open).
Please review the files you've saved to your University OneDrive (and your M: drive, if you've ever used this), and copy any that you need to keep elsewhere.
If you've downloaded any software for home or personal use, please check to see if your subscription will end, and copy any files you need to keep.
Library
Please return all your Library books and pay any outstanding fines.
Once your Library account is clear you are eligible for reference and study use of the Library, and you can borrow up to four books at a time (a fee of £35 per year applies for borrowing).
Career and Employability Services
- You can access the University's careers services for five years after graduation. Book your video, phone or email appointment today or check out our online resources
-  To book an appointment, sign up to events or find jobs that suit your preferences, update your Handshake account with your personal email address.
- We can also give you access to our online 'Build My Career' resource - just email careers@bradford.ac.uk with your name, email address, student number and course title.
- Register your interest in the Bradford Graduate Programme our free package of individual career coaching and consultation, customised application and interview support, targeted job and internship search and tailored workshops.
Convert your PebblePad e-portfolio account
Students get a free personal PebblePad account for life. PebblePad is an e-portfolio tool that helps you record your accomplishments, build portfolios and webpages to impress potential employers, publish blogs, and much more.
If you've used PebblePad in your studies you can take all your work with you by converting your PebblePad account (you must do this before your University IT account closes). Even if you haven't used PebblePad in your studies, you can still convert to the free account, as long as you do so before your IT account closes.

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/it-services-intranet/SitePages/files.aspx

IT Services
Saving and accessing your files
OneDrive
OneDrive is cloud file storage which is available to you as part of your University's Office 365 account, along with email and calendar.
Saving your work to OneDrive means that you can access your files from anywhere, anytime, via any device with an internet connection. You can also share files with others if you wish, and choose to give them viewing access only, or edit access.
Note: Did you know you can install Office 365 on your own device?
Important
When using our services, You must abide by the IT Services Acceptable Use Policy

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/career-and-employability-services-intranet/SitePages/Appointments.aspx

Career and Employability Services
Appointments
Our appointments are impartial, and confidential and are open to University of Bradford students and recent graduates.
You could start with a 15-minute drop-in any weekday (10:00 - 12:00 and 13:00 - 14:00 - no need to book) or book a longer appointment for a more in-depth discussion.
Careers appointments
We offer a range of appointments, both face-to-face on campus and remote options via email, phone and video.
All appointments are bookable through our new Handshake Career Centre portal. Please include your UB number when booking.
Drop-ins / quick queries (15 minutes)
Drop-in and quick queries appointments available every weekday from 10:00–12:00 and 13:00-15:00.
Drop-in sessions are now available for face-to-face chats in the Careers space in Student Central, or you can book in advance and select an appointment on campus in the Careers space, or contact by phone or video (choose your preference when booking).
We can help you with:
- Getting initial feedback on your CV or covering letter
- Developing your CV
- Researching your career
Please note
- MyBradford in Student Central is currently closed so please scan the posters to check-in, this will let us know you are here. Please sit in the waiting area and we will come to meet you.
- These are initial information sessions, so at the end of your 15 minutes, you may be referred to a longer guidance appointment for more specialist advice.
15-minute employment contract appointments
For any student working on campus - 15 min appointments with Nicola Crowther
You will need to complete a contract if you are working on campus.
When you are offered work on campus you will need to book an appointment to complete a contract. Please have the following to hand for your appointment:
- Student card
- Evidence of your National Insurance number (NI card/old payslip/HMRC record)
- Bank details
- Passport or FULL British birth certificate
To renew your contract please have your:
- Student card
- Passport or FULL British birth certificate
30-minute appointments
Appointments on campus, or by phone or video call to answer your queries (choose your preference when booking).
We can help you with:
- finding and applying for part-time jobs
- feedback on your CV or covering letter
- finding work experience or internships, including Summer Experience and Bradford Graduate Internships
- finding and applying for your industrial placement year
- feedback on your personal statement or application form questions
- a general discussion on how to prepare for an interview
45-minute guidance appointments
Appointments on campus, or by phone or video call to answer your queries (choose your preference when booking).
We can help you with:
- exploring your career ideas and the range of options open to you
- getting feedback on your CV and covering letter
- postgraduate study options
- preparing for an interview
- a mock interview
- preparing for assessment centres
- exploring course difficulties and a possible course change
- self-employment
MBA guidance appointments
Our experienced and professional career consultants Gillian Coyle and Beverley Thomas offer appointments for MBA students.
Book your appointment online or email careersMBA@bradford.ac.uk to arrange a convenient slot.
Please quote your full name, course and UB number when making a booking.
Opportunities abroad
30-minute on-campus or remote appointments (in person or by video call or phone) with the International Opportunities team.
- Queries about opportunities abroad
- Study placements and short study international programmes
- Term-time work placements (Erasmus)
-  Work placements: term-time, summer, graduate and research (Erasmus)
- Inbound student queries/documents to sign
Appointment Information
Please note
- Please book your appointment in advance through Handshake Career Centre (except for drop-in sessions)
- In line with University guidelines, we recommend that you wear a face covering whilst in the Careers space and during your appointment; hand sanitiser will be available in all appointment spaces; don't attend in person if you feel unwell.
- You cannot get support for academic course work through these appointments. Contact your module tutor directly if you require any help with an assignment. You can also get study skills help from the Academic Skills Advice service.
Keeping records:
-  We encourage you to take your own notes at your guidance appointments. Any notes a career consultant takes in your appointment are stored confidentially and destroyed after two years in accordance with the University confidentiality policy.
- We keep a confidential record of your visit on our client database. This helps us to keep in touch with you and is limited to the nature of your enquiry.
Codes of practice
See our student and graduate customer service statement and other statements of service.
We conform to the shared values of guidance as identified in the AGCAS Code of Practice on Guidance, Appendix A.

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/career-and-employability-services-intranet/SitePages/Summer-Experience.aspx

Career and Employability Services
Summer Experience
About the programme
Summer Experience is our internship programme working with local businesses and organisations. Applications are accepted from undergraduate students from the University of Bradford who are in their first or second year of a three-year course or penultimate year of a four-year course.
You will be paid a training allowance of £448.70 per week (subject to National Insurance and Tax reductions).
The internships can take place anytime from late May (after the exam period) to September and will be six weeks full-time work (or part-time equivalent).
This is a great opportunity to gain meaningful work experience that will enhance your CV.
Who is Summer Experience for?
Any current first or second year undergraduate student of the University of Bradford (you must be returning for at least one more academic year).
You must be eligible to work full time in the UK during the vacation period. If you are an international student, please check your Visa status for working during vacations, for most students studying a typical 3 or 4 year undergraduate programme you are likely to have eligibility. If you are unsure about your eligibility to work, please seek advice from the International Student Adviser and check the UK Council for International Student Affairs website.
We welcome applications from disabled students/students with dyslexia to help provide valuable work experience.
If you have any questions about your eligibility to apply for these projects please get in touch via email: summerexperience@bradford.ac.uk
How does it work?
Summer Experience projects are full-time placements based within local and regional businesses, charities and organisations, which typically start at the end of May or into June or July. There is a minimum requirement to work six weeks but there may be an opportunity to work longer.
In addition to providing you with an excellent opportunity to gain valuable work experience within a local business or enterprise, the summer experience scheme also provides you with advice and support, before, during and after your placement.
At the end of your placement, all students take part in a celebration and awards ceremony. This is an opportunity for us to thank all the participants in the Summer Experience programme. It’s a great opportunity to bring together everyone involved and celebrate the successes of the programme.
Live Vacancies
Check out all the opportunities on Handshake Career Centre
Follow the University of Bradford to be notified of all new vacancies.
You can also register your interest for upcoming vacancies now by emailing your CV to summerexperience@bradford.ac.uk
How do I apply?
1. Summer Experience placements will be advertised this page and via the Handshake Career Centre. Please be aware that we will continue to add opportunities as and when they become available so keep checking back to make sure you are aware of all the placements on offer.
2. Once you have selected a project you would like to apply for, you will be asked to submit a CV and cover letter to summerexperience@bradford.ac.uk clearly stating which position you are applying for and why. There will be a deadline indicated on the job advert (you can apply for as many Summer Experience opportunities as you like).
3. To ensure you have the best chance of securing an interview for the placement, please make sure that you seek support and help from Career and Employability Services before submitting your application.
4. All applications will be received by the Summer Experience team and forwarded to the host organisation. The organisation will then get in touch with you should you be shortlisted for interview.
Payment
All of the projects advertised require you to work a total of 210 hours which you will be paid £448.70 per week. Subject to National Insurance and Tax reductions, this means that even if you work part-time you will still work the same number of hours as a full-time project.
During the internship
You will be visited by a member of the Summer Experience team during your internship to ensure the project is running smoothly and we are on hand by telephone or email should any problems or queries arise.
You will be required to complete a self reflective workbook about your placement that details what you have been involved with, what you have learnt - skills, knowledge etc and how this placement may help your future career development plans.
What types of projects have been run previously?
Previously students have worked on a variety of projects, including:
- Market research
- Business Analysis
- Graphic Design
- Computer Programming
- Multi media
- New Product Development
- Process re-engineering
- ...and more

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/career-and-employability-services-intranet/SitePages/CVs.aspx

Career and Employability Services
Creating your CV
What is a CV?
A CV is a one or two page document which shows your skills, achievements, qualifications and experience. CVs vary from country to country, but the information here is to help you make a conventional UK CV. The American English term for CV is ‘resume’, so you may also hear this mentioned. Your CV gives an overview of who you are and what you have to offer an employer.
Why do I need a CV?
- CVs are often requested as part of the application process.
- You will need one if you are making speculative enquiries to organisations to find out if there are any potential opportunities for you.
- Recruitment agencies usually ask for a CV.
- Uploading your CV to jobs websites can make it easier for recruiters to find you and get in touch with opportunities.
- We recommend offering a copy of your CV to employers attending our careers fairs, so make sure you bring plenty of copies with you.
Getting started
If you've not created a CV before, the Build My Career CV Builder is designed to help you, using a step by step approach with advice and information for each section. You can then download this as a word document and make further amendments as required, using the information and advice below as a guide.
Types of CV
There are a variety of CVs used in the UK today, so do your research (or ask us!) to make sure the format you choose is appropriate for the type of job you are applying for, the organisation’s culture, your experience and how you wish to sell yourself to the employer.
Types of CV include:
- Chronological: details your education and work history in reverse date order.
- Skills-based: emphasises the skills you have developed throughout your employment, education, voluntary activities, etc. The details about your employment and education are usually kept to a minimum, with the focus being a larger skills section detailing your transferable skills. Evidence and examples should be included to back these up.
- Hybrid: these CVs combine the above two styles. They feature a more detailed employment and education section, as well as a skills section with evidence and examples.
- Academic: most commonly used in postgraduate applications for research based or lecturing positions. This format places greater emphasis on the subjects you have studied, projects or dissertations undertaken and areas of academic interest and research. Post-doctoral CVs also need to include a summary of research expertise together with a list of publications and conferences attended (if applicable).
- Infographic and Video CVs: in creative industries, an unusual approach can help your application stand out from the crowd. This could be in the form of an infographic CV, using graphic design to present your skills and experience in an interesting way, or a video animated/interactive CV to show off your skills. However, for traditional and non-creative roles, a quirky CV may single you out for the wrong reasons and harm your application, so try and gauge your audience beforehand.
What to include in your CV
Firstly, have a look at our CV guideline template, right. It will give you an idea of what information you should put where, and how a professional CV should look.
There is no rule about what you must include in your CV, but the following points are typically what you need to include in all types of CV:
Personal details:
Do include: your name, address, telephone number, current and most reliable email address. You could also add your LinkedIn account or other social media links if appropriate.
Don't include: a photo, your date of birth, gender, ethnicity, marital status, national insurance number or religion in a UK CV.
Personal Profile:
Not essential, but if you do decide to use one, make sure it adds value to your CV - don’t just use generic buzzwords. Focus on the role applied for and include personal qualities, experience and skills.
These are useful in academic CVs as they can be helpful for highlighting the area of research you want to enter.
Can also be useful in explaining a change of direction in your studies or career if you have a varied work or educational history.
Keep it simple and think about these three key things: 1) Who you are; 2)Your skills and highlights; 3) What you’re looking for.
Education and Qualifications:
Start with university (this is most important so should be given prominence) - include relevant modules and grades; perhaps your dissertation title. If you have not yet graduated, you can give your predicted or expected degree results, e.g. BSc (Hons) Computer Science – expected 2:1. If you have lots of additional qualifications, such as ECDL, PRINCE2, COSHH, Health and Safety, you can include them here or create a separate Additional Qualifications section.
Work backwards starting with the most recent adding the name of your high school and dates for A- Levels, GCSEs and equivalents. You don't have to write the full address of each institution - the city or town will do if it's not obvious from the institution name. Keep it concise - a sentence to cover your subjects and grades is fine.
For overseas qualifications you should indicate the UK equivalence.
Employment History or Work Experience:
Give the name of the business where you worked, your job title and the dates of your employment in reverse date order. Underneath this, detail your responsibilities, duties and skills developed.
You can include any voluntary experience in this section or list it separately if appropriate.
If you have a lot of work experience, you may want to divide this into Relevant Employment Experience and Other Employment Experience sections.
Technical skills
List the skills and knowledge which is specific to the job you are applying for, such as laboratory skills: “I have an excellent knowledge of laboratory techniques including protein analysis, handling human samples, analysis of vitamin C content by titration...”
Think about your experiences academically and through any placements and work experience where you have gained the ability to carry out the required tasks of the role.
These could alternatively be included within Education or Employment History, but don’t repeat information.
Transferrable skills
Match the skills you add to your CV to the job description, rather than producing a generic list.
Provide information about how you gained each skill, such as “My verbal presentation skills have been developed to an excellent standard as a result of delivering weekly seminar presentations to groups of 20+ as part of my degree”.
Try to avoid duplicating information shown elsewhere on your CV.
If you also have Additional Skills such as IT, Languages, First Aid, Driving Licence, etc. you can list them here or in a separate section as appropriate.
Interests, Responsibilities and Achievements:
This is optional, but many employers value it as it can indicate a range of skills and qualities such as teamwork, responsibility and trustworthiness as well as your passions and interests.
Are there any of your personal interests that reflect the job? For example, if you are involved in gaming tournaments and applying for video game design roles, or you volunteer for a cause which has a similar ethos to the organisation you are applying to.
Be specific about your activities - “Football” doesn’t say much, but “Football: Captain of Shearbridge Tornadoes five-a-side team, organised and coordinated fixtures and was responsible for team budget” gives recruiters a much fuller picture and includes extra skills; think about how often you do the activity and the level you have reached.
Include any positions of responsibility you have held, such as equipment officer for the archery team, or social secretary of the pharmacy society, etc.
References:
You can state “references available on request”, but it is acceptable to leave off the references section altogether as they are not generally required at this stage of the recruitment process. You should however include two referees on undergraduate placement CVs.
If your application progresses you will be expected to provide references (usually two), so think about who you could ask as referees and make sure they are happy to provide you with a reference.
Presenting and submitting your CV
Formatting your CV - 10 top tips
1. Two-page CVs are the standard for graduate and internship opportunities, but one page is acceptable for part-time work (longer CVs may be acceptable for academic positions, particularly if you have lots of publications and conferences to list).
2. Use a clearly legible font, e.g. Arial, Calibri, Candara or Gill Sans no smaller than size 11.
3. Bullet points: with short concise sentences, each piece of information has the same value and the same chance of being read; key information may be missed in long paragraphs.
4. Effective formatting: if all your text is the same style it can look bland and unappealing, but the use of bold, italics and underlining can break up text and highlight important details.
5. Clear sub-headings: make things easy to find by clearly labelling them. In your skills section, name the skill first so the reader’s eye is drawn to it, e.g. “Communication: developed active listening and clear communication skills helping a diverse range of customers at Tesco.”
6. Be consistent throughout, with clear dates and locations and all indentations, bullet points, etc. all lined up perfectly.
7. Think carefully about the use of colour – formatting for black and white is the best option when it comes to reproducing your CV.
8. Order your sections so that your relevant skills and experience are prominent, ideally on the first page, to highlight your suitability for the role. Try not split sections over the page break.
9. Think about applicant tracking systems (ATS) - the majority of online CV submissions will be scanned by a programme first, so keep your formatting simple (don’t use boxes, tables or graphics) and include key words relevant to the job to increase your chance of selection (see more in FAQs, below).
10. Check spelling and grammar: mistakes can cause your application to be rejected.
Submitting your CV
Always send a covering letter together with your CV, make sure you have read the submission guidelines and you are sending it how the recruiter wants it.
By email
- When emailing, add your covering letter and CV as attachments, rather than typing the covering letter in the email itself, to ensure both are formatted correctly and are professional looking.
- Keep the email formal, professional and concise when applying for a job. Always follow the employer’s instructions and quote any references they require. You also will need to say that your CV and covering letter are attached.
- Think about your email address - it is best to use a professional sounding one rather than a personal address.
By post
- If sending your CV by post, use good quality white or cream paper, and a high-resolution printer for a professional finish.
- Post early to ensure you meet the closing date.
Example email for submitting your CV

Recipient: mrjohnson@azsolutions.co.uk  
Subject: CV and covering letter for the post of Graduate Data Analyst, reference 112/A

Dear Mr Johnson,

Please find attached my CV and covering letter to apply for the position of Graduate Data Analyst. I would be grateful if you could confirm receipt of this application by return email.

If you have any queries, please do not hesitate to contact me.

Yours sincerely,  
Maria Khan  
Email: maria_khan@businessmail.co.uk  
Phone: 07888 123456

Frequently asked questions about CVs
What are applicant tracking systems and do I need to change my CV for them?
The majority of online CV submissions will be scanned by a Applicant Tracking System (ATS) programme first, so understanding how they work will mean your CV has a better chance of scoring enough to pass to the next stage, where your CV will be read by a (human) recruiter.
Don't worry though, if you follow the advice on this page and are tailoring your CV for each application, then you should already be doing most of the right things:
- Use keywords - reflect the language of the job description to describe your skills and tasks in previous roles - the software will be looking for these key words and phrases to assess your relevance to the role.
- Don't use photos, graphics or tables - the ATS scan may miss valuable information if it can't read the format as plain text.
- Keep formatting simple - bullet points are ok, and keep to a maximum of two fonts. Word documents are preferable but simple PDFs are ok - to give you an idea of whether it is readable try copying and pasting from your PDF into Word or Notepad to see if there are any pasting errors.
- Don't try and trick the system - hiding information as white text doesn't work as it is more likely to confuse the ATS, and as with any application, exaggerations and lies will be found out eventually.
Do I have to produce a new CV for every application?
Yes. If a CV is targeted to the job and organisation, you will significantly increase your chances of getting shortlisted for interview. This doesn't mean you have to start from the beginning every time however, you can have a generic CV which you can use as a basis for each application that you can adapt to match your skills and experience with those on the job description.
Will my CV be read?
In the current job market, employers receive a lot of CVs. Recent surveys suggest that employers may only give a CV an initial 7-to-10 second glance before deciding if they want to read it in more detail or discard it. Although this sounds worrying, if you make sure that your CV is clearly laid out and you demonstrate valuable skills, the employer will want to read it more carefully.
Should I embellish the truth to make my CV stand out?
Definitely not. Any lies on your CV are likely to be found out, which is likely to lead to your dismissal if you get the job. Whether you are offered a job or not, if you are found guilty of making a fraudulent job application you may be placed on the CIFAS Internal Fraud database for six years, which would seriously damage your chances of finding work- see the Graduate Application Fraud Leaflet for the full details.
How should I lay out my CV?
Make sure you read this page for all our hints and tips, but an important point to remember is to place key information at the top of each page to have the most impact, and always start a page with a new section; it is good practice to start and finish individual sections on the same page.
Should I include a photo?
There is no need to include a photo, or your date of birth, gender, ethnicity, marital status, or religion in a UK CV.
Also, do not include a National Insurance number to avoid any online identity theft.
Can I split up my employment history into relevant experience and other work, such as part-time jobs?
Yes- you may want to divide your employment or work experience into sections, such as Relevant Employment Experience, Other Employment Experience or Voluntary Experience depending on what you have to offer. Alternatively, you may want to create a specific section on its own e.g. Industrial Placement, Intercalation Year, Summer Internship/Summer Experience etc. Think about the role and what the recruiter will want to know about the most.
What about other qualifications?
Do include other relevant qualifications e.g. ECDL, PRINCE2, COSHH, Health and Safety, etc.
If you have overseas qualifications, indicate their UK equivalence.
Is it safe to upload my CV to online jobs boards?
Once you upload a CV, anyone who has registered as an employer on that site will have access to your contact details - are you comfortable with that? If so, check the different privacy settings on each job board and take care to select the options that are most appropriate for you.
Some recruiters have targets for signing up graduates and they ‘harvest’ CVs from websites for contact details; you may receive an email about a graduate job that sounds great but turns out not to exist. If you do post your CV on a jobs board, make sure you thoroughly check opportunities that come from recruiters to make sure they are legitimate.
We would recommend that you sign up with a specialist recruitment agency instead. Recruitment agencies have to be GDPR compliant which means they need your permission to share your contact details with a third party organisation.
Finally, remember you should never include your date of birth or national insurance number on a CV and you can list the area you live in rather than your full address.
Next steps and further information
- Quick queries: For students who haven't had their CV checked before, we offer introductory quick queries appointments for initial feedback on your CV. These are available every weekday throughout the year, from 10am-12pm and 1-3pm.
- Appointments with Careers: Once you have been to a drop in session, one of our Career Consultants can make further suggestions for improvement on the content. Reserve your appointment online now
- Build My Career: There is a comprehensive section dedicated to CVs on our Build My Career portal, featuring videos, audio clips and other help and advice, including an extremely useful interactive CV builder.
- Part-time jobs: There are sample CVs specifically for student jobs on our part-time work page
- Information Room: We have a wide range of CV and covering letter resources in our Information Room in Student Central, including specialist reference books (such as the Creative CV Guide, You're Hired! How To Write A Brilliant CV) & DVDs (e.g.Cover Letters - The Write Approach).
- Call in and see us and we will help you access the resources you need.
- Workshops: We also regularly run workshops on a wide range of topics including CVs.

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/timetabling-intranet

Timetabling, Attendance and Room Bookings
Useful contacts
- If you have an Audio-Visual or IT technical issue within a teaching or meeting room, please ring (01274 23) 3333
- In the unlikely event you encounter another user in the room you previously reserved, please ring (01274 23) 4848
- If you have a medical or security emergency, please ring (01274 23) 6999
- Should you experience any issues when swiping into a location. Please contact: attendance@bradford.ac.uk

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/exams-intranet/SitePages/Exams---Supplementory.aspx

Exams
Exams - Semester Two 2025
Things to Remember!
Arrive at the exam room early
Students are asked to arrive at the examination venue at least 15 minutes prior to the start of the exam
Late students are permitted to enter the exam up to 15 minutes after the Invigilators have started the exam; students arriving later than 15 minutes will be permitted to enter the examination venue.
Your UB Card
Please do not forget to bring your UB card. This will be required before starting an exam.
And of course a pencil for any MCQ exams
Extenuating Circumstances
- Students who are unable to attend an examination due to unexpected personal difficulties that are outside of your control, or you become unwell during an exam, may be eligible to apply for Extenuating Circumstances
- Please see our Consideration of Personal Circumstances SharePoint page for further details about this.
Tips when preparing for your Exams
Students:
It is possible to view your personal examination timetable via Publish
Please remember to keep refreshing this or your chosen calendar if you've subscribed.
**It is unlikely your exam timetable will change, however if you could please check your exam timetable on a regular basis**

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/exams-intranet/SitePages/Guidance-for-exams.aspx

Exams
Guidance for exams
Guidance for on-campus exams
Your on-campus exams may take place as a traditional 'paper-based' exam in a general teaching room, an 'online/Computerised' one taken via Canvas in a PC cluster room.
The exam on your timetable will specify which room it is taking place in, and will include your seat number.
Other types of exams such as Long/Short Time-Limited, at Distance ones, do not take place on campus.
Before your exam …
Give yourself plenty of time to check your timetable to make sure you know:
- Which room it's in
- And in which building
- The date of the exam
- The start time
- What you need to bring with you
You should arrive at least 15mins before the start time.
If you arrive late by 15mins, or more, you will not be admitted contact your Faculty straight away (see Faculty Support section).
Please note: If you are unable to sit your exam due to unexpected personal difficulties that are outside of your control, or you become unwell during an exam you, may be able to apply for Extenuating Circumstances. Extenuating circumstances is the process you can follow to ask the University to take your personal difficulties into consideration.
Please see our Consideration of Personal Circumstances SharePoint page for further details on this.
What you can and cannot bring into an exam
*** please remember to bring your Student ID card ***
Plus:
- a pencil for MCQ exams
- a pen for writing
- a non-programmable calculator, if required for your exam
Items allowed in on-campus exam rooms:
Only essential items are allowed:
- pens, pencils, ruler, other permitted writing/drawing tools, non-programmable calculator if allowed.
- A clear/transparent pencil case.
- 1 bottle of water - no other food/drink allowed.
- 'Open Book' exams - teaching staff will let you know what you are allowed to bring into the exam with you - no internet access allowed.
Items NOT ALLOWED in on-campus exam rooms:
- All hats / headscarves (except for religious reasons), other headgear including earphones/earplugs (see exception for students with an LSP).
- Tools / blades for sharpening pencils.
- Blank (scrap) paper, graph paper - these and Answer Books will be provided.
- Study notes (unless specified for an Open Exam), textbooks, notes on self.
- Electronic devices: mobile phones, smartwatches, tablets, laptops etc... these must be switched off left in your bag/coat in the designated area except in a PC/computer exam where you will be provided with a brown envelope for you to put your phone insided, to be sealed and kept on your desk.
*** Do not bring valuable items into the exam room with you - all personal belongings will need to be left in a designated area ***.
Learner Support Profile (LSP) Exception
If you have a requirement to use TextHelp (Read&Write software) on a PC, as part of your profile, then please remember to bring along a pair of headphones/earphones if you intend to use the audio facility.

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/exams-intranet/SitePages/Information-for-Students.aspx

Exams
Information for students
Examination Information
IMPORTANT INFORMATION: your individual Semester Two Exam Timetable is now available to view on Publish and the Student Portal - you should receive an email notifying you of this.
Exam Periods for 2024/25:
- Semester 1: 6 January – 17 January 2025
- Semester 2: 28 April – 9 May 2025
- Supplementary (resits): 21 July – 1 August 2025
Exam Timetable Publication Dates:
- Semester 1: 2 December 2024
- Semester 2: 24 March 2025 (revised)
- Supplementary (resits): To be confirmed (TBC)
*** Please note that your exam timetable may change during the examination period as the Examinations Office takes into account any revised departmental requirements ***.
Important information
Where do I need to go for my exam? What do I do once I'm there? When do I need to turn up? How can I access extra help?
There's lots you need to know before heading into your exams, and you have an important role to play in the smooth running of them, so please take time to read the guidance on this site carefully
You can find help and guidance in:
- Guidance for on-campus exams
- Quick Links section
- Useful Documents
For information on exams overseas see our section on Exams at other Locations
How to access your Exam Timetable
You will receive an email notification on the day of publication to alert you that your personal examination timetable is available to view on Publish as well as the Student Portal.
On Publish
Click ‘View full timetable’ on your portal to open Publish, and scroll through to the exam weeks (w/c 28 April & 5 May) to view your exams.
On your Student Portal page
Scroll down the page (use the hamburger/ellipsis icon when on a mobile device) to view a snapshot of your exam timetable.
It will show the name of the exam/s, the day/date, start & finish times, the building/room number and your seat number. Both upcoming and previously taken exams during that exam period will be visible:
Please Note:
- You must attend the exams that have been allocated to you, at the location shown on your timetable. Please do not try to sit your exam at locations/times that are different from those you have been allocated.
- You must arrive at the examination location at least 15 minutes before the start of the exam. This is to ensure the examination Invigilators have enough time to seat all the candidates and begin the exam at the start time.
- You must remember to bring your UoB ID card with you to all examinations.This will enable the examination Invigilators to properly identify you.
Important: If you arrive at an examination more than 15 minutes after the start time you will be allowed entry to sit the examination (see Useful Document section for Late Arrival Information).
** Please check your exam timetable via Publish or the Student Portal on a regular basis **

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/exams-intranet/SitePages/Exams-at-Locations-Other-Than-Bradford.aspx

Exams
Exams at Other Locations
The University expects all students to take formal examinations here in Bradford. Occasionally circumstances beyond one’s control prevent students from returning to Bradford at the time that the examinations are scheduled due to medical or other extenuating circumstances.
The University has developed a policy for such circumstances to enable students to apply for approval to undertake University examinations (normally Supplementary) away from the University campus, either in other UK locations, or overseas in their home country.
The University's policy is that students will only be granted permission to take University examinations at locations other than Bradford due to the following extenuating circumstances:
- serious illness of the student concerned.
- serious illness of a close relative.
- death of a close relative.
- visa expiry.
Students should contact a venue, this should be the British Council, or a recognised local HE Institution in the location you wish to take your exam(s), to check if they can host the exam(s) for you. Once this has been confirmed by them, you need to complete the application form and return this to the Exams Office with supporting evidence no later than the published deadline dates.
Late applications may be considered.
Exchange students / study abroad programmes
Exchange students who are required to return to their course of study at their home University and/or home students who are going abroad to start a period of study in a host University still need to complete the application form however these will be automatically approved and the fee to the University of Bradford will not apply.
Exchange students should discuss any potential problem with attending examinations at Bradford with the Erasmus Office (Study Abroad Bradford) at the University in the first instance so that further advice and/or support may be provided.
Exchange students will be notified by the Exams team here at Bradford of all arrangements made with the host University.
Fee Information
Costs incurred for the administration required to arrange examinations outside of Bradford are paid by the student. Current fees payable to the University of Bradford are £100 per examination. This charge is payable to the University after the examination has been taken by the candidate.
In addition to the University’s fees, the host institutions e.g British Councils also charge students a local fee for the examination services they provide. These fees are variable, and it is advised that you contact the host institution to arrange payment prior to the examination.
Students who, without prior notice, fail to attend University examinations after arrangements have been made will be charged the full fee by the University.
Deadline Dates for Applications in 2024/25:
- Semester 1: 28 November 2024
- Semester 2: 12 March 2025
- Supplementary: To be confirmed (TBC)
Examination Periods for 2024/25:
- Semester 1: 6 January – 17 January 2025
- Semester 2: 28 April – 9 May 2025
- Supplementary (resits): 21 July – 1 August 2025

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/exams-intranet/SitePages/FAQs.aspx

Exams
FAQs
Examination FAQs
What happens if I can't attend my exam due to snow or other adverse weather conditions?
During the January exam period the Exams Team will monitor the weather forecast. If there are any changes to exam times or cancellations due to the weather, we will publish them here as well as on Social Media sites.
You should ensure you allow plenty of time to arrive safely for your exams. If you have any concerns or queries, please contact exams@bradford.ac.uk
When will my timetable be published?
View timetable release dates
How will I receive my timetable?
Your personal exam timetable will be available on your student portal on the published release date - you will receive an email letting you know that your timetable is available to view. Please ensure you keep refreshing and checking your emails for changes to the schedule and any updates.
Am I allowed a calculator in my exam?
Guidance relating to the use of calculators in exams can be found on the Information for Students page.
How do I find my exam location?
Please see the Campus maps and Building Lists.
What if I am unable to sit my exam?
If you are unable to sit your exam due to unexpected personal difficulties that are outside of your control, or you become unwell during an exam, you may be able to apply for Extenuating Circumstances. Extenuating circumstances is the process you can follow to ask the University to take your personal difficulties into consideration.
Please see our Consideration of Personal Circumstances SharePoint page for further details.
Can I sit my exam in a location other than Bradford?
Policy and guidance on taking your exams in another location
An exam is missing from my timetable, who do I contact?
Please contact the Exams Team in the first instance.
When will I get my results?
Results are released by the Programme Admin teams. Dates of release should be available on your Canvas module.
Am I entitled to prayer breaks during my exam?
The University of Bradford prides itself on our inclusive learning, teaching and assessment strategy which upholds the key principles of confronting inequality and celebrating diversity. We have made adjustments to enable students to observe religious activities which includes no scheduling of teaching or assessment activities during Friday prayers.
Students are therefore not permitted to leave a scheduled teaching or assessment activity in order to pray. Advice from local Imams, and practice from around the UK HE sector, suggests that students should pray before and after the scheduled activity rather than interrupting the activity in order to pray.
What happens if I am late for my exam?
Students will be permitted entry to an exam up to 15 minutes after the formal start time. Please read the Late Arrival Information for further information.

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/exams-intranet/SitePages/Exam-Timetables.aspx

Exams
Examinations Team Overview
Examinations Team
The primary responsibilities of the Examinations Team are to ensure both staff and students are fully supported during each examination period and to ensure exam conditions are met in accordance with the University examination procedure.
This will include overseeing invigilation, designing the exams timetable and being responsible for associated electronic systems and their development.
*Please note
For information on Examination/Assessment marks please contact your Programme Admin Team / Faculty - email addresses can be found on our Information for Students (sharepoint.com) page.
Examinations Dates for 2024/25:
Examination Periods:
- Semester 1: 6 January – 17 January 2025
- Semester 2: 28 April – 9 May 2025
- Supplementary (resits): 21 July – 1 August 2025
Contact Information - email address: exams@bradford.ac.uk

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/timetabling-intranet/SitePages/Room-Bookings.aspx

Timetabling, Attendance and Room Bookings
Booking a room
How to book a room
Resource Booker
The University has the latest cloud-based room booking solution that enables both students and staff to create and manage their own ad-hoc room bookings. Students are encouraged to reserve space that directly relates to their studies, such activities may include group work, private study, exam revision etc. Staff may reserve a space that is required for an event that is part of the academic timetable e.g., team meeting, external event etc.
Resource Booker allows the user to quickly and easily reserve an available university location on any smart device 24/7.
You can:
- View and select an available location appropriate to your requirements
- Amend / cancel bookings previously generated
- Receive automated email booking status confirmations
- Export all personal bookings into an alternative calendar for easy access
- Request an individual recurring booking of up to a maximum of five occurrences.
At the time of your request the booking will be reserved, preventing the location from being booked by another user whilst still awaiting confirmation from a member of our team.

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/timetabling-intranet/SitePages/FAQs.aspx

Timetabling, Attendance and Room Bookings
Timetabling FAQ
Who do I ask for help with my timetable?
For help with timetable queries contact your Faculty or Programme Admin. To view your timetable see the Timetable Information section on this SharePoint site.
When will the timetables be released?
Students and staff are able to access their personalised timetables via Publish
Where can I find my timetable?
Individual Staff and Student Timetables – Publish
Students and staff are encouraged to use Publish to view and download individual personalised timetables.
This application allows the user to download to your mobile calendar, with the additional function of enabling change notification, ensuring in the event an essential change is made will be automatically reflected and an email notification received explaining the change.
Note: It is important that notification service must be enabled within the Profile section of the Publish application.
How do I access online sessions?
Links to any online sessions will be emailed to you at your University email account - this information may also be provided on Canvas, the University's VLE (Virtual Learning Environment) - available via the Student Portal
Will the timetable change after it's been published?
Any necessary changes made to the published timetable will be updated automatically on online timetables - please make sure you refresh your browser.
Staff and students are responsible for checking their timetable regularly for amendments.
What happens if I'm taught in a room without a card reader?
Most teaching rooms will have a card reader fixed to the wall, close to the entrance. Large teaching rooms may have more than one reader - it doesn't matter which one you use as long as it is in the room where your session is being held.
Some very small teaching rooms may not have a card reader on the wall.
In this situation, your tutor should have a paper Check-In record for to sign.
Can I book a room for a student society meeting, group study or revision?
To book a room use the online room booking service Resource Booker
Will I be able to book the room that I want?
This will depend on availability / suitability / capacity, amongst other things.
With regard to booking teaching rooms during teaching hours / weeks, Faculty requirements for timetabling take priority. However once timetables have been published, others are able to request teaching rooms for non-teaching activities.

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/timetabling-intranet/SitePages/Respectful-Location-Usage.aspx

Timetabling, Attendance and Room Bookings
When using a University Location
Location Usage Etiquette
University space is there for everyone to enjoy and make full use of the facilities to support your particular requirements. We have a duty of care to consider your well-being when using a space and have such arranged planned cleaning throughout each day in every room. Unfortunately, there has been a number of reports that some locations are not being used for their intended use or used without prior permission.
Could both staff and students ensure a space is first reserved before entering and all space is used respectfully and left in a condition you might expect when you arrive to a planned event.

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/timetabling-intranet/SitePages/Room-Usage-Etiquette(2).aspx

Estates & Facilities
Room Usage Etiquette
Room Usage Etiquette
As we begin the start of the new term, we would like to ask both staff and students when using location resources you consider how the space is being used. Although we fully encourage the use of all spaces, we ask when using any location that you ensure furniture is not removed from an additional location to support your requirements and ask that you ensure an appropriate space is reserved for your activity.
In addition should any movement of furniture within your room be required that the room is reset after each use and that all belongings are removed and the space is left ready for the next user.

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/placements-office

Placements Office
About us
The Placement Administration Office is an administration team responsible for placements across the whole University.
The team deal with over 6,000 placements a year ranging from formal placements, to work based learning to sandwich years from a variety of courses such as Nursing, Pharmacy, Engineering, Social Work, Management & Law.
Opening Times:
- Monday to Thursday: 09:00 to 17:00 (09:00 to 16:00 during July to August)
- Friday: 09:00 to 16:00
Location:
- Horton A 1.13, Richmond Road, Bradford, BD7 1DP
Email Contacts:
- Health placements: foh-placements@bradford.ac.uk
- Life Sciences placements: fls-placements@bradford.ac.uk
- Social Sciences placements: fss-placements@bradford.ac.uk
- Engineering and Informatics placements: placements-admin@bradford.ac.uk
- Management and Law placements: placements-admin@bradford.ac.uk
Phone:
- +44 (0) 1274 232578

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/placements-office/SitePages/fohs-travel.aspx

Placements Office
Travel and Dual Accommodation Expenses (NHS Learning Support Fund) Guidance
During your programme of study you may undertake a range of placement experiences. Depending on your programme, the placements you undertake will reflect the diverse population that the NHS and Private and Independent sector serves. Placements span across the Yorkshire region and depending upon your programme of study, these may on occasion even be outside of Yorkshire too.
No allowance can be given with regards to travel distance / time, where you live, your method of transport or your family commitments, for example childcare or dependent responsibilities. Whilst on placement you will also be required to reflect the working hours of your placement area so will undertake a variety of shift patterns including early mornings, late evenings, night shifts and weekends during the placement.
Travel and Dual Accommodation Expenses (NHS Learning Support Fund)
To be eligible to claim practice placement expenses the basic rule is that it must cost more to go to placement than it does to travel to university. NHS Learning Support Fund rules state that you should use the cheapest form of transport available.
To claim practice placement expenses, you need to first sign up to a Learning Support Fund account and then download their Travel and Dual Accommodation Expenses (TDAE) form. Please complete this form on a day-by-day basis and if using public transport please provide tickets as evidence with your claim form. If you drive to placement, you do not need to provide petrol receipts, it is your responsibility to ensure that you have adequate insurance cover for all risks associated with its use. Students travelling to and from their placement site in their own vehicle do so at their own risk.
Mileage cannot be claimed if a family member or partner drives the student to and/or from practice placements.
Car parking and tunnel / bridge tolls can be claimed back if the cost together with the mileage is more than travelling to university. Attach proof of payment and parking tickets to your claim form. Some hospitals have parking permits for students, please enquire at the applicable hospital for more information. Please also be aware that car parking cannot be reimbursed where mileage is not being claimed.
NHS funded students must use the most direct route available when travelling to and from their placement.
Car hire
You can claim any excess cost to you of hiring the car, including the appropriate mileage rate and the cost of any car parking/tunnel tolls. Your university must agree and authorise any use of a hire car in advance.
Taxis
Costs incurred from the use of private hire vehicles such as taxis are not covered under this Scheme and students will only be reimbursed for the cheapest method of transport available to them.
Overseas placement costs
You can claim expenses for some overseas placement costs, the TDAE guidance clarifies what costs you can be reimbursed for.
Submitting your completed TDAE form
Please note LSF are launching a new online portal for travel claims on 7 January 2025. The placements admin team can accept paper claims until 7 Feburary 2025.

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/placements-office/SitePages/inplace.aspx

Placements Office
InPlace
The Placements Administration Team uses Quantum IT's InPlace Placement Management System. This supports our strategic aspirations in relation to placements and helps us to support the delivery of high-quality placements in our professional programmes.
What is InPlace?
InPlace is a single, fully integrated web-based placement administration system. The Placement Administration and Careers and Employability teams use this system to administer and track your placements.
How to access InPlace
InPlace is web-based and prefers Google Chrome or Firefox. Once you access the webpage you should be logged into InPlace, or if you're not signed in, you'll be taken to the University’s logon the same as you would do for Canvas and other University systems.

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/placements-office/SitePages/occupational-health.aspx

Placements Office
Occupational Health
The University must ensure that our students are deemed fit to go on placement. To that end we work with a company called Industrial Diagnostics Company (IDC) (part of the Latus Group) to arrange appropriate health questionnaires, vaccinations or Occupational Health follow-up consultations for the following courses:
- Nursing;
- Midwifery;
- Occupational Therapy;
- Physiotherapy;
- Sports Rehab;
- Diagnostic Radiography;
- Paramedic Science;
- Physician Associates;
- Clinical Sciences;
- Healthcare Sciences;
- Trainee Nursing Associates;
- Pharmacy - health questionnaire/vaccination evidence;
- Social Work - health questionnaire;
These processes are in place to ensure both student and patient safety whilst you are on placement. It is your responsibility to ensure that you keep up-to-date with your appointments - if you don't, you may well be prevented from attending placement.
Vaccination evidence
If you have any questions about your personal vaccination records or if you need vaccination evidence to give to your employer, please contact the Occupational Health Provider (Industrial Diagnostics Company) ohbradfordstudent@latusgroup.co.uk or telephone 01530 239190
Vaccination questionnaire and the importance of attending appointments
Before you attend your first vaccination appointment with the Nurses, you should already have completed the Occupational Health questionnaire and uploaded details of your previous vaccinations. This will allow the Nurses to update your profile and ensure you are given the correct vaccinations. A link to the questionnaire is sent to your personal email account during the summer before you enrol at university. If you cannot find the link to the questionnaire, please contact foh-placements@bradford.ac.uk as soon as possible.
If you fail to attend the appointment that has been organised for you, you risk not being able to start placement at the same time as your colleagues. A valid reason for not attending is if you are ill. You must let us know in advance if you cannot attend.
If you continue to miss appointments that have been organised for you, you will be referred to the academic programme team.
Blood tests
Any student who is unable to provide evidence of their previous vaccinations will be required to have a blood test at the 1st appointment. Paramedic and Midwifery students will also be required to have a blood test at their 1st appointment. All students are required to have a blood test at their 4th appointment to confirm immunity levels. It is really important that you drink lots of water and are well hydrated before you attend the blood test as this will make it easier to obtain a sample.
Vaccination dates
The dates of the 4 x vaccination sessions for your course will be posted on CANVAS at the start of the academic year so please do make a note of these and ensure you are available on those dates. Industrial Diagnostics will email you direct with the exact date/time of your first appointment. This email will be sent from no-reply@ohims.co.uk so please do look out for it. If you cannot find the email from IDC, it is worth checking your junkmail folder. Subsequent appointments will be made when you attend your appointment. Industrial Diagnostics organise hundreds of student vaccination appointments throughout the year and we need you to turn up on the planned dates/time for these to run smoothly.
Vaccination appointments will be sent to your personal email address in the first instance so please check your emails regularly as it is essential you attend all appointments you are invited to. Please do not ask your GP to administer any vaccinations you may need.
Ongoing safety arrangements when attending an appointment
To ensure the ongoing safety of our students and staff, we continue to ensure that all appointments are carried out on a strict social distancing basis. Please adhere to the following requirements:
- please don't arrive early for your appointment - only arrive at the time you have been given in the email invitation;
- please don't gather in groups or with your friends whilst waiting for your appointment;
- you should wait in the corridor outside the Occupational Health suite of rooms (Richmond Building E86-88) until a Nurse comes to collect you;
- you should ensure that you use hand sanitiser both before and immediately after your appointment.
Student feedback on any Occupational Health issue
Please take the time to complete the questions below if you have any issues/problems relating to the organisation and/or administration of your Occupational Health appointment at the University. This could relate to not receiving an appointment, any issue during the appointment itself or turning up to an appointment and then being turned away by the Nurses, due to a vaccine shortage or similar.
It is really important that you let us know of any difficulties that you have experienced so that we can work with all parties to minimise the risks of the situation happening again in the future.
Thank you for taking the time to complete this form which can be accessed here: https://forms.office.com/Pages/ResponsePage.aspx?id=0aJeJGVDJkeAWmMeuT2Tquk3D1jJ2spAj07TqARh5VNUMUNIMjRUTzdLVVY3ME04M1VJUk5ZSElHRS4u 
Change of health during studies
If students develops a new health issue or there is change to an existing health issue during their studies and this has an impact to their studies or placement, it may be appropriate to refer them to our Occupational Health provider, Industrial Diagnostics. Personal Academic Tutors should meet with their tutee to discuss the health issue and discuss the reason for referral with the Programme/Placement Lead before submitting the referral. Please ensure that the initial referral contains a good level of detail and specific questions have been asked. This will ensure that the report is likely to be more detailed and contain practical advice.
Contact the Placements Administration Team if you have any questions regarding any of these processes.
If academic staff feel that the OH report received does not answer specific questions, please do raise this with the Occupational Health provider in the first instance so that further information can be requested from the clinicians.

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/placements-office/SitePages/PARE.aspx

Placements Office
PARE (Practice Assessment Record & Evaluation)
What is PARE
PARE is an online website which provides the following information/support for students undertaking clinical placements.
- Placement Details - staff contact details, basic information about the placement area
- Placement Evaluation - students are required to evaluate placements via PARE
- Online Portfolio - is used for some courses
How to access PARE
Access PARE via https://onlinepare.net/
Student Guidance
- PARE Access - the Placements Administration team add student details to PARE when you enrol on the programme (in year 1). You will receive an email telling you to activate your account.
- University email - ensure you use your exact university email address including all punctuation eg a.n.another@bradford.ac.uk.
- Searching for a Placement Details - use the Search Placements area to find contact details such as a number or an email address.
- Student/Learner PARE User Guide - you can access this via PARE User Guide section on the PARE website.
- Placement Reference in PARE (PR code) usually matches the InPlace Placement (Agency reference) code, so you can search for placement information in PARE using the InPlace reference.
- Placements on PARE - the Placements Admin team add placements to PARE within the first few weeks of placement starting.
- If your placement isn't showing on PARE, it is easy to add this on, see the Frequently Asked section below for guidance.
- Once your placement has finished you have 2 weeks to complete the evaluation
Frequently Asked Questions
My Placement isn't showing and I need to do my evaluation
If your placement isn’t showing on the 'my placement' screen. You will need to refer to the PARE dashboard and search for your placement. This is how you will be able to find contact details such as a number or an email address.
- If your placement has not been added to PARE for any reason, it is easy to add this on 
1. Click on the Evaluation tab > Click on Add NET survey at the top right-hand side; 
2. Search/select the placement provider; 
3. Add the start and end date of your placement; 
4. Select Save 
5. Complete the evaluation once your placement has ended.

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/placements-office/SitePages/uniform.aspx

Placements Office
Uniform
Nursing, Radiography, Midwifery, Pharmacy, Physiotherapy, Occupational Therapy, M Physiotherapy Sport and Exercise and Physician Associate placements require students to wear a uniform.
For information about uniform for Paramedic students, please see below.
The University of Bradford works with Simon Jersey (Official Uniform Supplier for York and Humberside Universities) to provide this uniform.
Contact details for Simon Jersey and the University Placements Team specifically for Uniform are at the bottom of this page.
Sizing
This year with the social distancing measures in place you are required to order your uniform online. Please watch the sizing guides in order to measure yourself correctly.
Ordering your uniform
You will receive an email from Simon Jersey explaining how to order your uniform. You have 48 hours once you receive this email to set up your login details and order your uniform, after which point the link will expire. Email Simon Jersey NHSUniversity@simonjersey.com if you need a new link to be sent.
Your uniform will be delivered direct to your home address. Please it try on immediately to ensure it fits. If it doesn't fit, please return it to Simon Jersey within 14 days (please do not bring it into university).
Special Measures - if you experience any difficulties with the uniform issued/or you require special measures contact the Placement Admin Team in the first instance and explain your issue. We will then refer you to Simon Jersey who will be able to support your needs. Please note this process can take 12-14 weeks.
Washing and care instructions
Please see the garment care advice guidance
Epaulettes
Epaulettes confirm what year of study you are undertaking eg year 1, year 2 etc. Epaulettes are exchanged each year. Please view Canvas announcements detailing how to exchange epaulettes.
If you lose your epaulettes you must replace them as they are required for other students. please pay for replacement epaulettes here
Hijabs
Hijab’s are not provided for students, students must ensure their hijab is securely tied to ensure it remains tucked within the tunic of the uniform and doesn’t become loose and extend over the uniform tunic. Hijab’s should be washed daily at 60 degrees along with other uniform so suitable fabric should be worn to assist this.
Need Extra uniform?
If you want to order your own extra uniform you can purchase this directly from Simon Jersey at a discounted rate.
We retain a number of good quality pieces of used uniform which can be given to students. If you would like to request any second hand items please request this via the online form
If you have any queries regarding your uniform please contact your Placement Administrator
Paramedic students' uniform
Yorkshire Ambulance Services (YAS) will provide your uniform and the Placements Team will guide you through the ordering process which is done online. You will receive all of the items below:
Utility belt, Showa non-latex gloves, 4-in-1 inner jacket/gilet, 4-in-1 Outer coat, Hi-Vis tabard, Hi-Vis trousers, Wicking Polo shirt, Male/Female trousers, Blue T-shirt, Safety low-leg boots, Holdall, Safety Goggles, Safety Helmet, Beanie Hat, Hi-Vis inserts (front and back), Epaulettes.
For accurate sizes, please refer to the Paramedic uniform size guides.
You should try your uniform on immediately as there is a strict 30-day returns policy
If any of your uniform does not fit, please bring the items back to the Placements Office, Horton A1.13 along with any returns label which will have been included in your original order. For any queries about your uniform, please contact the Placements Team in the first instance.
Replacement items needed for placement
If you have lost items that were issued to you by the University you must pay for a replacement.
Simon Jersey Contact Details
- Tel: 0344 4722444
- Email: nhsuniversity@simonjersey.com
University Contact Details
- Tel: 01274 236631/01274 232578
- FOH-Placements@bradford.ac.uk or FLS-Placements@bradford.ac.uk

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/placements-office/SitePages/Self-Source-Placements.aspx

Placements Office
Self-sourced placements
The University runs many placements on a ‘self-sourced’ basis as part of or an option on many courses. These are placements where the student finds and initially secures the placement themselves like Industrial Placement years, Chemistry, Criminology / Sociology short placements, Public Health and Well Being or Archaeology and Forensic Science placements.
Pre-placement
Your Course Academics will initially guide you in what the requirements of your placements will be, from the timings and length to learning outcomes and they will often be able to steer you to companies and opportunities already out there.
Careers and Employability will be able to guide you in approaching companies, working on your CV and interview skills. We would strongly advise that you contact them as soon as possible as it can take time to secure a placement.
DBS check
If you are undertaking a placement with children or vulnerable adults it is likely you'll need to undertake a DBS check. Please complete this form to request this. Please refer to the DBS guidance for further information.
Secured placement
Once your have secured a placement you must inform the University to gain placement approval. Placements are approved via the University’s Placement system, InPlace. (InPlace guidance is below). Follow the guidance under "Submitting an application for a self-sourced placement.
Information Required for Approval:
- Placement start and end dates (sandwich placements should commence from Mid July, after the exam board).
- Placement Provider contact details, including Organisation Name, Contact name, contact details
- Job Description & Offer Letter
- Salary Details
We require additional information for some courses eg some students must upload an employer agreement/health and safety form. Mandatory fields or information required have a red asterisk. Access InPlace to check what information is compulsory for you.
Once you have submitted your self placement submission the Placement Administration team will check with your course academics for approval and if so we will then contact the placement as the University needs to have received an Agreement and Health and Safety forms back from the company before the placement can be approved.
You should be able to see feedback comments advising you of what's happening with your placement by logging into InPlace and looking at your Notification screen.
Once your placement has been approved you will receive an email from the Placement Administration Team and your InPlace record will clearly show a placement.
If you are completing an Industrial Placement Year then it is vital you check with your Programme Administration Team that you are on the correct version of the Course.
On Placement
While on placement please ensure you maintain professionalism, placements are an excellent opportunity to make contacts in the working world who may be invaluable when the time comes to seek employment.
Absences - record any absences via form. You must also inform your employer and if you're experiencing any long term health issues ie longer than one week, please contact your Personal Tutor/Placement Lead.
Ensure you follow any requirements for your placement as laid out by your course academics and meet any contact points they have arranged.
Support during Placement
As you are registered as a student during your placement you continue to receive support from the University. Your PAT/Placement Lead/Placement Administration Team / Other Academic staff on your programme and Student Life and Wellbeing Services can support you with any issues you are experiencing. So please do not hesitate to ask for help.
Returning from Placement
Before leaving a placement ensure that you return any equipment they may have loaned you for the placement and also ensure you have not left any of your belongings with them.
Your placement may well form part of an assignment or assessment so ensure your have everything you need to enable you to complete this.

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/placements-office/SitePages/dbs.aspx

Placements Office
DBS
Many courses involving placements require you to have a University of Bradford Disclosure and Barring Service (DBS) check. New starters on the majority of these courses will receive an email asking them to complete the online DBS form, the ID used must then be verified by the My Bradford team. If you have not received an email with a link to the online form please email admissions@bradford.ac.uk during the applications cycle or foh-placements@bradford.ac.uk if you have started the course.
Identification Validation
Please complete the online application form as soon as you are asked to do so. Once you have completed the form, book an appointment with MyBradford to verify your ID with MyBradford. You can book an appointment to verify your ID with MyBradford.
Track your DBS application
We advise you to track your DBS application form after you have completed your ID check. Track this via the DBS website.
If you don't receive your DBS certificate you can request a duplicate copy but this must be done within 3 months.
DBS Update Service
We advise you to register for the DBS update service which will speed up any job offers in the future.
Keep your certificate safe - placement providers may ask to see it and if you lose your DBS certificate, you will need to apply for another for which you will be charged.
Online store
If you are a Registered Student and have misplaced your original certificate and therefore need to complete the application process again, please use the Online store to apply for a DBS check. Please note there will be a charge for this.
International Students
International students who are enrolled onto the course with a Police Check usually complete a DBS during Year 1 Semester 2. Communications are usually sent in December advising students what types of ID can be used. The DBS check is usually launched in January/February. If you have any questions or need any support please contact the Placement Admin team.

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/placements-office/SitePages/travel.aspx

Placements Office
Travel and Accommodation Guidance
NHS Placements Learning Support Fund
General Travel Guidance
During your programme of study you may undertake a range of placement experiences. Depending on your programme placement span across the Yorkshire region and can also be outside Yorkshire too.
No allowance will be made with regards to maximum or minimum travel distance / time of where you live, your method of transport or your family commitments, for example childcare or dependent responsibilities. Whilst on placement you will also be required to reflect the working hours of your placement area which may involve a variety of shift patterns including early mornings, late evenings, night shifts and weekends during the placement.
Driving
Before attempting to use your car to travel to and from placement please ensure that you have adequate insurance to cover all risks associated with your vehicle, that your vehicle is roadworthy and has a current MOT Certificate if required. Please check with your car insurer about insuring your car for business use if necessary, some placement providers may require business insurance. Under no circumstances are you allowed to transport patients as per Trust / Placement policies.
It is advisable to plan your route and parking options prior to commencing placement and try and pre-empt the traffic levels. There are links to some route planners in the Useful Travel Websites section.
Public transport
It is advisable to pre-plan your journey and work out which buses/trains you will need to access prior to commencement of placement and also any necessary walking or cycling routes.
Hospital shuttle buses
Many Health or Life Sciences placements occur in hospitals, some hospitals may operate shuttle buses. Please check with reception at your placement area or website about shuttle buses.
Bicycle hire
Bicycles can be hired or bought second hand from Bradford Cycle Hub.
Adverse weather conditions
In the event of adverse weather conditions, please use your own judgement to gauge whether it is safe to travel to your placement and back. Bear in mind that in heavy snow or flooding sometimes buses and trains can be cancelled or stop running altogether.
Accommodation
Students may benefit from staying in accommodation such as a hotel or Bed and Breakfast if the travel distance is lengthy. Some hospitals offer accommodation; please contact FOH-Placements@bradford.ac.uk for contact details. NHS funded students may be able to claim this back up to the value of £82.50 per night.
Contact details for accommodation at Airedale General Hospital and Bradford Royal Infirmary are below.
Airedale - 4 bed shared unit - self contained bedroom and bathroom with communal kitchen/living room. Bond of £450 required which is fully refundable on departure providing no damage. Contact Allison Crocker Allison.crocker@nhs.net for availability.
Bradford Royal Infirmary - Lynn Hadley Accommodation Supervisor – 01274 364102
Short term loans for placement expenses
If you experience financial difficulty with upfront placement travel or accommodation costs for placement you can receive a short term loan from the University. Please read the Canvas guidance and complete the Student Support Fund Load Application Form. You must complete the first section (personal information) and section B relating to placement costs.
If you have any questions about the loan or agreement please contact supportfundloan@bradford.ac.uk

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/placements-office/SitePages/mpppt.aspx

Placements Office
Mandatory Training (Previously known as MPPPT)
- This will usually take place during the first weeks of the academic year.
- There is a timetable of dates available on the Mandatory Training Canvas page.
- You will be emailed a session which you must attend.
- You will also receive an email giving you access to eLearning for Health as you need to complete their Healthcare Students eLearning package.
There is a Self-Enrol Canvas module just for Mandatory Training. which will contain all the Mandatory Training information you need plus links for preparation for practical sessions (BLS/M&H).
Students need to self-enrol on this module USING THIS LINK: https://bradford.instructure.com/enroll/373GRN 
Once you have enrolled then you can access this via canvas or this link: https://bradford.instructure.com/courses/17868 
Mandatory Training is delivered as follows:
- Pre -Reading & Preparation for Practical Events lectures and videos covering Moving & Handling and Basic Life Support
- Practical Moving & Handling and Basic Life Support Events
  -- Basic Timetable of dates on the canvas site.
  -- You will be emailed a slot you must attend.
- Online eLearning for Health modules (the Healthcare Students Package)
  -- You will be emailed a logon for eLearning for Health, you must complete their HealthCare Students package, save the certificate and upload this to InPlace.
  -- Comprehensive guidance is available here: https://bradford.instructure.com/courses/17868 
- Some courses or fields also need to complete a Practical Mental Health Breakaway training
  -- Basic Timetable of dates on the canvas site.
  -- You will be emailed a slot you must attend.
- There may be additional material delivered in your individual programmes.
TROUBLESHOOTING
I’m a new student who hasn’t received my email invite to eLearning for Health
Programme Admin will be sending a list to eLearning for Health around your induction week and you should receive notification they have requested your logon. The email from eLearning for Health should then arrive within a few days.
I’ve forgotten my password
Go to https://www.e-lfh.org.uk . Click register / Log in (top right hand corner) then click on the Forgotten password link. Enter your Username to reset your password.
I’ve forgotten my username
Go to https://www.e-lfh.org.uk . Click register / Log in (top right hand corner) then click on the Forgotten username link. Then enter your university email address in the ‘forgotten username’ field. eLearning for Health use your full University email address, which contains dots - for example: j.r.bloggs2@bradford.ac.uk (note the dots). This is not the same as the logon you would use to access canvas and other University systems (in the example above, the logon would jrblogg2@bradford.ac.uk).
I’ve tried the forgot username link but it says my email is invalid
Are you using your full University email address? Please remember that eLearning for Health use your full University email address, which contains dots - for example: j.r.bloggs2@bradford.ac.uk (note the dots).
This is not the same as the logon you would use to access canvas and other University systems (in the example above, the logon would jrblogg2@bradford.ac.uk).
I've completed a module several times but it does not show as passed or completed
eLearning for Health: "Depending on the computer system and the web browser used to access our learning, communication between the content object and the learning management system can occasionally not occur for a myriad of different reasons. This can result in completions and scores not updating correctly on a user’s profile. Due to the many different computer systems and web browsers that are currently used, the way in which they can all be configured, updated and changed from the default standard, and the many different types of content we currently provide, it is challenging to confirm an absolute correct configuration to access our learning and always achieve correct completion and score updates.
However, we do recognise how frustrating it can be to spend valuable time progressing through a learning object only to have your completion or score not recorded. If this does occur then we sincerely apologise.
We have put together the following information to help you hopefully avoid such an event occurring again.
Whether you are using Windows, Macs, home computers, laptops, trust computers, Android devices, IPhones and IPads or any other device, there are web browsers that can be installed on them to access internet sites. The main web browsers are Google Chrome, Firefox, Safari, Internet Explorer 11 and Microsoft Edge. In their default format, they should all work fine with our site. If you have installed add-ons into them then they can sometimes reduce the functionality of our site.
1. First and foremost, could you run our Technical Checker, to check for any possible browser configuration issues: [
https://portal.e-lfh.org.uk/TechnicalChecker 
2. Please make sure any ad-blocking add-ons are disabled for our site. We do not use adverts in any of our content, but some of our animations can be snagged by overzealous ad-blockers. Please add our site domain to the allowed list.
3. Please ensure pop-up blockers are configured to allow our site to use them. Most, if not all, of our learning objects open in a browser window.
4. If you are using a web browser and completion and/or scores are not recording, try installing one of the other web browsers and attempt the same piece of content again. This can help us work out if the content is not functioning correctly, as it is doubtful that it would fail in two different browsers at the same time unless it is badly configured.
5. We strongly recommend you use the latest version of an alternative browser - Internet Explorer 11, Firefox, Edge, Chrome, or Safari - these are the only browsers which we support for use with our e-Learning.
6. You may be struggling to access content from a trust computer but you could attempt to access from your mobile device or home computer instead. This would confirm if the issues is site based or at the trust/local location.
7. Make sure the content you are trying to complete has been progressed through correctly. Sometimes questions can get missed and this can affect the overall completion of the content.
8. Please make sure, once you have completed a session, that you close the e-Learning window correctly by clicking on the 'X' at the top of the e-Learning window (red dot on a Mac). If using a tablet or smartphone, ensure the e-Learning is not left running in the background
Please note: We cannot manually manipulate any user’s learning history on our site. If a learning object has not recorded as complete, or updated a score when you think it should have, then you must attempt it again after you have made any necessary changes as outlined in the above information. Sending us screen shots of completed learning objects may prove that you have indeed obtained completion or a certain score but it doesn’t enable us to add it to your user profile."

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/campusconnect-intranet/SitePages/Do-you-need-support-.aspx

CampusConnect
Do you need support?
The University of Bradford provides a wide range of support for students including:
- Counselling and Mental Health Advice services.
- Support for students with a Disability (including accessing DSA support and help advising on academic adjustments).
- Help with money advice.
- Access to emergency food and our hardship fund.
- Support with housing and domestic abuse.
- Chaplaincy service ensuring you can access faith support and guidance.
Food Support Available
The Student Life Team run an on-campus Food Pantry which is available to help students who have insufficient funds to purchase food or essential toiletries.
The Food Pantry runs Monday to Friday between 10:00am – 12:00pm from Room 0.44 in Student Central.
Please note, to ensure you are receiving the most appropriate level of support, a member of the Student Life Team will ask you some questions about your financial circumstances, during your visit to the Food Pantry.
If you have any questions or are unable to come in person, please contact us at money@bradford.ac.uk or on 01274 233218
To access these services you can visit the MyBradford desk in Student Central where staff from these teams are available 10:00 to 15:00 Monday to Friday or you can refer yourself online
The university is committed to tackling sexual harassment and violence. Understanding the prevalence of this, and where it happens, is crucial to our work in this area.
We are asking students to complete a survey to help us understand whether you have experienced either sexual harassment and/or sexual violence since you have become a student here, either within or outside of the university setting.
Your answers will help us to understand the incidence of sexual misconduct at the university and help us develop tools to tackle this serious issue. We recognise that sexual misconduct is a sensitive subject and really appreciate your input.

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/campusconnect-intranet/SitePages/Do-you-receive-verification-codes-(for-MFA)-via-text-message-.aspx

IT Services
Do you receive verification codes (for MFA) via text message?
The information below applies to you if you receive verification codes via text message when approving your sign-ins to University services.
Microsoft is making a change to the 'text message' method for MFA (multi factor authentication).
This change means that, instead of sending verification codes via standard text messages, Microsoft will attempt to send the codes via WhatsApp
Note: This only applies if you have WhatsApp linked to the same phone number that receives the text messages. If you don't have WhatsApp associated with your phone number, you'll continue to receive codes via text message - the same applies in the event that your device has no internet connectivity.
The first time you receive a verification code in WhatsApp, Microsoft will notify you (via a text message) that the code has been sent to your WhatsApp.
The messages sent to WhatsApp are similar to the text messages but contain more Microsoft branding and a verified checkmark.
Please note that the phone number associated with Microsoft's WhatsApp Business Agent is: +1 (217) 302 1989. You can verify that the message originates from that number by selecting 'Microsoft' at the top of the message (the Business Agent number is then displayed).
Important
Regardless of how you receive MFA verification codes, ensure you are expecting to receive a code (that is, shortly after you’ve requested access to a University service, and not at any random times). Always remain mindful that phishing attempts can come not just via email, but also via text messages, social media platforms, QR codes, and other methods. If you are suspicious of any messages, don’t act on them - please report them
What is the University's recommended method for approving sign-ins?
The recommended and most secure method for approving sign-ins is via the Microsoft Authenticator app (feedback also suggests this is the easiest method).
Therefore, if you have a smartphone, we encourage you to install the Microsoft Authenticator app and set that as your primary authentication method (you can learn how to add the Authenticator, and change your default method, in the MFA guide).

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/centre-for-inclusion-and-diversity-intranet/SitePages/CfID-and-the-Team.aspx

Centre for Inclusion & Diversity (CfID)
Centre for Inclusion & Diversity (CfID) and the Team
The Centre for Inclusion and Diversity are here to support, advise, offer training and build a platform of inclusivity for our staff, students, and local community, as well as contributing nationally and internationally to advancing EDI. A team of EDI colleagues are embedded throughout the university to ensure a full integration of EDI in all areas of our work.
Team Members:
- Udy Archibong: PVC, Equality, Diversity and Inclusion
- Kath Bridger: EDI Insight and Evaluation Lead
- Utam Utam: Lecturer in EDI
- Soniya Zeb: Senior EDI Advisor
- Kellie Barnes: Executive Assistant - EDI
- Rifat Bashir: Equality and Diversity Co-Ordinator
- Tiffany Holloman: Brad-ATTAIN Project Manager
- Lenka Kaur: Access and Participation Coordinator (Equality)
- Chris Hall: Associate Director - EDI
- Alastair Goldman: Professor of Molecular Biology
- James Machell: STEM Curriculum Development Manager
- Harnek Panesar: Dignity and Respect Support Manager
- Ashfaq Ahmed: Project Leader - Local Activity Partner
- Thomas Whitford-Bartle: Programme Liaison Development and Delivery Manager
- Rachael Brown: Equality Charters Advisor

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/centre-for-inclusion-and-diversity-intranet/SitePages/Dignity-&-Respect-Advice-Service.aspx

Centre for Inclusion & Diversity (CfID)
Report + Support
Report + Support is an online tool that students and staff can use to report incidents such as:
- bullying
- harassment
- discrimination
- sexual misconduct
- hate
- other behaviour that falls short of what we expect from students and staff at the University.
Reports can be made anonymously or with your details, that is completely up to you.
Dignity and Respect Advice Service
Dignity and respect
Our staff and students expect to be treated with dignity and respect, and the University is a place where people are protected from treatment which demeans them, or is unfair or intimidating.
The University of Bradford is fully committed to sustaining a positive and mutually supportive working environment free from harassment, discrimination, bullying and victimisation where students and staff can work collaboratively and productively together, and where everyone is equally valued and respected.
What you can do
Please remember your own responsibilities to treat your colleagues, students and all guests to the University with the dignity and respect you expect to receive yourself. You can play your part by being sensitive to the views of others, which may frequently differ from your own, and trying to create an environment where your own behaviour, language or conduct does not create any offence or misunderstanding.
It is the responsibility of every member of the University to help create an inclusive community where everyone is enabled to achieve their full potential and mutual respect is the norm.
More information
Further information around dignity and respect can be found in the policy and guidance documents, on the People, Culture and Wellbeing SharePoint.
If you would like to speak to someone from CfID about this service, please contact equality@bradford.ac.uk or the Dignity and Respect Manager Harnek Panesar.

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/centre-for-inclusion-and-diversity-intranet/SitePages/Pronouns-in-email-signatures-and-beyond-–-a-brief-guide.aspx

Centre for Inclusion & Diversity (CfID)
Pronouns in email signatures and beyond – a brief guide
The use of pronouns in email signatures, name badges and social media is becoming more commonplace in professional environments. The NHS incorporated pronouns in its #hellowmynameis campaign in 2020. The APPG LGBT+ (All-Party Parliamentary Group on Global LGBT+ Rights) highlighted their importance the same year. In 2021, LinkedIn introduced it as a separate field on profiles.
What’s a pronoun and why is it important?
In this context, pronouns are what we use to refer to someone instead of using their name, for example “he” or “she”. Where we might not know someone’s gender, we may refer to them with a singular “they”. Getting someone’s pronoun wrong can be embarrassing, but it can also reveal hidden biases – we know not all doctors are “he” and not all nurses are “she”, but our brains may still default to one or the other. We can also make assumptions on pronouns based on name or appearance, even though a Chris might be a woman and a toddler in pink dungarees could be a boy. In all cases, if we get it wrong, we quickly apologise and move on, making sure we get it right next time.
Culturally, getting someone’s pronouns correct, and by extension their gender, is important. Accidentally misgendering someone is considered largely awkward, but forgivable. Doing it purposefully or repeatedly is perceived as dismissive, aggressive or openly hostile.
Trans people and pronouns
Pronouns are especially important to someone who has undergone a gender transition, as they will have strong feelings about their gender identity. The University employs a number of trans staff, with over 1,000 across UK Higher Education providers self-identifying as under the trans umbrella. See more information on the Advance HE site
Over 13,000 students nationally told us in 2018/19 that their gender identity was not the same as what was assigned to them at birth. These staff and students may have already undergone transition or they may be undergoing it right now, in which case their pronouns can change after you meet them. Instead of a trans person having to have awkward conversations with everyone around them, it’s best to simply have pronouns somewhere for others to see.
Much like someone changing their name after marriage or divorce can take a bit of getting used to, all that’s expected if someone is transitioning is to make a note of their new name and pronouns and address them correctly going forward.
Beyond he & she
In the 2019/20 academic year, 595 members of university staff and 3,865 university students across the UK identified as neither male not female. This can mean different things for different people, for example that they are non-binary, genderfluid or agender
While the UK does not officially recognise genders beyond male & female (for example on passports), many organisations linked to the Higher Education sector do. Besides pronouns, this is also reflected in the use of titles like Mx (a gender neutral version of Mr or Ms). Some countries, including Canada, Iceland, Australia and Denmark, do officially recognise a third gender on passports, which is broadly (though not exclusively) associated with non-binary people. More countries are in the process of standardising a third gender identifier.
What does it mean when someone mixes pronouns?
When LinkedIn introduced pronouns in profiles, they allowed for custom options. According to them, these are the five most common custom pronouns on their platform.
In the blog post, LinkedIn provide some explanations from users themselves on why they have chosen custom pronouns. There is no simple answer, but some reasons may be that the person is, for instance, non-binary but presents as masculine or feminine, that they are still exploring their identity or that they are happy in both or any identities. In all cases, it means the person can be referred to by either given pronoun, though they may have a stronger preference for one or the other, reflected in the order given.
These pronouns don’t make sense!
Much like coming across a name you’ve never seen before, you may encounter some pronouns that are unfamiliar. These have been created by communities who may not have felt represented by existing pronouns or created in solidarity with people whose language does not allow for gender neutrality (Greek and Spanish are such languages). We refer to these as neopronouns.
Some more commonly used examples:
- He / She / They
- Him / Her / Them
- His / Her / Their
- His / Hers / Their
- Himself / Herself / Themselves
- Xe / Xem / Xyr / Xyrs / Xemself
- Ve / Ver / Vis / Vis / Verself
- Per / Per / Pers / Pers / Perself
- Ze / Zir or Hir / Zir or Hir / Zirs or Hirs / Zirself or Hirself
- Ey / Em / Eir / Eirs / Emself
Don’t worry, they are new to most people. They also evolve so the best thing is to check what pronouns someone actually uses and go with that. If you are really committed however, there is an app for that
If you are unsure how to pronounce them, do what you’d do when encountering a new name: either wait to hear someone else say it, ask people who know the person better or ask the person directly!
Do I have to include my pronouns in my signature?
No. You will have your own reasons for this. Perhaps you’re not entirely sure what your pronouns are or perhaps you’re in the process of transitioning, but are not out to everyone around you. Whatever your reason, it’s OK to not include pronouns in your signature. However, if you don’t have a specific reason not to, then you are very strongly encouraged to. It normalises their use which creates a more inclusive, welcoming and safe space for everyone, reflects our University values and shows trans and non-binary people that you are an ally. Importantly, no matter how strong your own sense of gender identity, assuming that everyone else could guess it can be problematic, as they may not want to make any assumptions!
While the use of pronouns has been associated strongly with trans inclusion, the bottom line is that someone’s name, appearance or job title will not necessarily reflect their gender. The only way to be sure is to ask or let that person tell you. Including pronouns in a signature, a name badge or a profile is a quick and easy way to do just that!
Example
For uniformity, pronouns should come immediately after the name in either the second line or in parenthesis immediately after the name in the signature.
Professor Uduak Archibong MBE, PhD, FRCN, FWACN
She / Her / Hers
Pro Vice-Chancellor [Equality, Diversity and Inclusion] Professor of Diversity
Or
Professor Uduak Archibong (She / Her / Hers)
Pro Vice-Chancellor [Equality, Diversity and Inclusion]
Professor of Diversity
Note: You don’t have to use all three pronouns in your signature. Most people prefer just two – She / Her or He / Him or They / Them.
Is this really that important to some people?
Yes.
Anything else I should know?
The third Wednesday of October is International Pronouns Day! You’re welcome to participate in this event.

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/centre-for-inclusion-and-diversity-intranet/SitePages/n.aspx

Centre for Inclusion & Diversity (CfID)
n-Able: Network for Promoting Disability Equality
About the Network
n-able meet four times a year in an informal setting to discuss issues, initiatives and support within the disability agenda. We also organise events and activities.
The network aims to:
- Provide a forum for disabled staff to:
  -- Share knowledge and experience in a safe and supportive environment.
  -- Have a collective voice and contribute to the University’s disability agenda.
  -- Gain knowledge and access appropriate support available for disabled staff.
- Provide the University with the opportunity to:
  -- Consult and collaborate with disabled staff.
  -- Increase disability awareness and push the disability agenda.
  -- Raise the profile of disability within the equality and diversity remit.
  -- Increase accessibility and inclusion across all areas.
  -- Celebrate and promote disability through events and training.
- Share knowledge and ideas.
  -- Increase member knowledge through attendance at external events.
  -- Showcase n-able’s work through social media, web presence and events.
What we have achieved and are working on
The strategic work of n-able feeds into the Equality and Diversity Committee and we work closely alongside the Centre for Inclusion & Diversity (CfID) Team, and other staff networks.
n-able has been consulted on various activities across the University including the Disabled Employee Guide. We contribute to the Equality Impact Assessment analysis and advise on new and updated policies and procedures across the University.
In 2015, n-able achieved "Awesome" network status and the co-chairs received the Inclusive Networks award for Network Leaders of the Year. In 2016, n-able was a key contributor and organiser of the very successful Diversity Festival.
How you can join
Anyone can join us. You do not need to have an impairment or tell us that you are disabled.
You can become a member if you have an interest in disability and would like to contribute to the disability agenda.
We meet in a safe and confidential environment and welcome all opinions and beliefs.
Come and join n-able so that we can continue to have our voices heard!

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/centre-for-inclusion-and-diversity-intranet/SitePages/Faith,-Belief-%26-Spirituality-Forum.aspx

Centre for Inclusion & Diversity (CfID)
Faith, Belief & Spirituality Forum
About the Forum
The Faith Belief and Spirituality Staff Forum is open to all staff and roles to raise awareness of issues relating to any aspects of Faith, personal belief, spirituality and “ultimate questions around eternity”
We aim to:
- Provide a safe space to discuss experiences at the university relating to the above,
- Offer mutual support as people explore ways to live out their faith beliefs or philosophies;
- Raise the profile of Interfaith issues and the place of Spirituality across the university;
- Challenge all forms of religious discrimination;
- Give guidance and feedback on university policy, procedures and strategy;
- Share information, ideas, practice and research.
We do not ask members to share personal issues unless they wish to. We meet in an informal and confidential environment and welcome all, via teams.
How you can join
The current Chair is the Chaplain : Revd Andrew Howorth. (On campus Tuesday, Wednesday &Thursday).
Email for enquiries and how to join: chaplain@bradford.ac.uk

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/centre-for-inclusion-and-diversity-intranet/SitePages/Equality-Charters.aspx

Centre for Inclusion & Diversity (CfID)
Equality Charters
The University of Bradford is a member of several equality charters and national schemes which aim to encourage an inclusive environment for work and study. Participation in these charters provides us with tools to increase access to opportunities for marginalised, minoritised and under-represented groups.

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/centre-for-inclusion-and-diversity-intranet/SitePages/Equality-Action-Groups-(EAGs).aspx

Centre for Inclusion & Diversity (CfID)
Equality Action Groups (EAGs)
The Equality Action Groups (EAGs) are sub-committees of the Equality Charters Steering Group, which reports to Equality, Diversity and Inclusion Committee (EDIC).
EAG Key Principles
- Empowered individuals build workplaces, services and communities where everyone can achieve their potential. All staff deserve a safe, welcoming workplace, where they are free to be themselves and bring their best to the role.
- Understanding the lived experiences of staff, students, experts by experiences and visitors to the university is crucial to inclusion, and this should directly inform institutional change in relation to attitudes and culture, policies, spaces and places.
If you are interested in joining, an expression of interest is open until 20th September 2024.
If you have any questions or to find out more, please contact us at equality@bradford.ac.uk

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/centre-for-inclusion-and-diversity-intranet/SitePages/Equality-and-Diversity-Structures.aspx

Centre for Inclusion & Diversity (CfID)
Equality, Diversity & Inclusion Structure and Governance
Equality, Diversity & Inclusion Committee (EDIC)
The purpose of the EDIC is to provide an effective strategic guidance and assurance mechanism for Executive Board, People Committee and Council on the delivery of the EDI strategy and the management of EDI related risk. The Committee achieves this through overseeing the framework for implementing and delivering embedded EDI on behalf of the Executive Board.
This Committee is chaired by the Pro-Vice Chancellor Equality, Diversity and of the University and brings together representatives from the wider university.
EDI Delivery Coordination Group (EDCG)
The purpose of the EDCG is a forum for the Associate Deans EDI and Associate Director.
Equality, Diversity & Inclusion Operational Group (EDIOG)
The purpose of the EDIOG is to provide a forum for discussing the priorities and concerns of staff and student equality forums and for addressing wider operational issues relating to EDI at the University. The EDIOG will be responsible for sharing good EDI practices across the university, exploring solutions to operational EDI issues and identifying common themes that point to strategic risks or opportunities and to escalate these to EDIC.
Equality Charters Steering Groups (ECSG)
The purpose of the ECSG is to provide an oversight and co-ordination function on all areas of equality charter mark in respect of students and staff. The ECSG will advise the EDIC on charter mark in relation to gender, race, disability and LGBT+ in respect of students and staff.
Executive EDI Advocate (EBA)
Each equality staff network and area of diversity will have its own Executive Advocate, who is a member of the Exec. Board. Executive Advocates provide communication between the networks and the Exec Board. They act as role models and spokesperson for their diversity area, and for EDI in general.
All EB members are committed to the principles of EDI by taking on the role of Executive Advocates. This includes a joint commitment to eliminating discrimination, advancing equality of opportunity, fostering good relations, and supporting the continued development of positive cultural messages across the entire University community.
Our Executive EDI Advocates will take responsibility for identifying and raising potential diversity and inclusion-related issues in meetings and discussions across the University.
Through this programme, EB members will collectively:
- Acknowledge their role in leading from the front as one of the most effective means of advancing the EDI agenda within the University.
- Understand that their visible support of EDI demonstrates to any possible opponents that they are out of step with the University’s key EDI messages.
- Are firmly committed to considering the possible impact of institutional practices on the diversity areas that they champion by embodying EDI principles in their day-to-day interactions with staff, students and others associated with the University.
- Strongly inspire leaders/managers at all levels to support staff in discharging their EDI responsibilities, network activities and events at the University.
While all EB members will be taking a collaborative and intersectional approach to EDI, specific involvement in EDI activities within protected characteristics /identified diversity areas will undoubtedly vary over time.
Executive Advocates for EDI areas:
1. Disability [Steve Gilley]
2. Race Equality [Andrew Lang]
3. Gender Equality [Paul Watson and Claire Pryke]
4. LGBT+ Equality [Martin Conway]
5. Neuro Diversity [Dave Harris]
6. Religion/Belief [Prof. Shirley Congdon]
7. Age [Prof. Sherif El-Khamisy]
8. Marriage and Civil Partnership [Prof. Martin Priest]
9. Socio-economic equality [Prof. Engobo Emeseh]
10. Wellbeing and Mental Health [Prof. Rob James]
11. Pregnancy, maternity, parents and carers [Dr Anne Miller]
EDI Facilitator
Faculty Staff
An EDI Facilitator will work collaboratively with the Faculty Associate Dean, Equality, Diversity and Inclusion, Heads of School and with the Faculty’s Equality, Diversity and Inclusion Committee on the development and implementation of the EDI agenda within their School and the Faculty.

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/campusconnect-intranet/SitePages/New-Grad.aspx

CampusConnect
New Graduate Skills Framework - Student Consultation
We are working on a new Graduate Skills Framework to help with your employability and confidence on graduation.
Employers are not just interested in degree qualifications; they are looking at your whole skill set. Our aim is to support you to showcase your unique profile of transferable skills. This will help you to demonstrate how you add value to the workplace and contribute to you feeling confident in the job role or other life choices you make.
We have been consulting with employers and University staff on the design and content of the Framework. Now it’s your turn to let us know what you think. Take a look at the proposed skill set and send your ideas and comments to us via survey. We really value your input!
You can also get involved through some focus groups that are happening over the next few weeks. Please sign up for one of the online or in-person focus groups. Thanks for taking part!

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/career-and-employability-services-intranet/SitePages/Part%20time%20jobs.aspx

Career and Employability Services
Part-time work
Having a job alongside your studies has many potential benefits. It can give you the opportunity to earn extra money, enhance CV, and improve your employability skills and prospects beyond university. Working part-time also offers the chance to meet new people and have a different social experience outside the university environment.
However, you should make sure that you can balance your job and your studies – we strongly recommend that you work no more than 15 hours per week during term time. Retail and hospitality jobs generally give you the flexibility to work weekends and evenings around your studies, but there are a wide range of roles which offer part-time hours.
Permission to work in the UK
The terms of the Student Visa state that international students (i.e. all students who are not British or Irish citizens) cannot work more than 20 hours per week in term time, or more than 10 hours per week for students on the Foundation courses – except in the case of sandwich placement or internship. The penalties for working more are severe and can result in you being asked to leave the country.
See more details on our International Students pages.
Getting started
There's a few things you can do to begin your search - firstly, take a look at our jobs database; you can book an appointment with us to talk about your options, and check out our social media pages for our Thursday Part-time Jobs Picks.
- take a look at our jobs database
- you can book an appointment with us to talk about your options
- and check out our Facebook page for our Thursday Part-time Jobs Picks.
How much will I be paid?
Your wage will depend on the type of work you are doing, your skills, the time of day and the type of employer, but legally all employers must pay their employees the minimum wage.
As of 1 April 2024, the National Minimum Wage (NMW) rates will be:
- £12.21 per hour for workers 21 and over (known as the National Living Wage)
- £10.00 per hour for 18 - 20
The NMW rate normally changes in April each year.
Where to look for part-time vacancies
Online
You can find a wide range of part-time vacancies online, via jobs boards or directly through an organisation's vacancies pages.
- Find a job is the jobs database from Jobcentre Plus, the UK government department that provides support for people seeking employment. It has useful advanced search features to help refine your search and is a good source of local part-time jobs.
- Indeed
- Totaljobs
Make sure to refine your search by job type, area and contract type to get the best results.
Newspapers
Local newspapers also have online job search functions, as well as pull out jobs sections in their print versions on a selected day each week:
- The Bradford Telegraph and Argus (jobs section on Wednesdays)
- The Yorkshire Post (Thursdays)
- Yorkshire Evening Post (Thursdays)
- Jobs Today for the Yorkshire region (Saturdays)
Local organisations
Below is a list of local companies and organisations in The Broadway and elsewhere in Bradford.
The Broadway
- 3 Store
- Accessorize
- Apricot
- Belong
- The Body Shop
- Boots (includes Pharmacy)
- Burger King
- Card Factory
- Claire's
- Clarks
- Costa
- Deichmann
- EE Mobile
-  The Entertainer
- Ernest Jones
- Foot Asylum
- Foot Locker
- The Fragrance Shop
- Game
- Gift Company
- Glamour Forever
-  H Samuel
- Holland & Barrett
- JD Sports
- Kiko Milano
- Laser Clinics United Kingdom
-  Khaadi
- MenKind
- Moss Bros
- New Look
- Next
- Pandora
- The Perfume Shop
- Poundland
- Rejuvaskin
- River Island
- Sainsbury’s
-  Schuh
- Select Fashion
- Smiggle
- Specsavers
- Subway
- Superdrug
- Superdry
- Swarovski
- Tessuti
- Trespass
- Vision Express
- Vodafone
- WH Smith
- The Works
Other organisations in Bradford
- Argos
- Asda
- Bombay Stores
- Cineworld
- Halfords
- McDonald’s
- Morrisons
- National Science and Media Museum
- Odeon Leeds Bradford
- Peacocks
- Pets at Home
- Pizza Hut
- Sports Direct
- Sunbridge Wells
- Tesco
- TK Maxx
- Waterstones
- Wetherspoons
Recruitment and employment agencies
Signing up with some recruitment agencies can be a useful way of finding temporary or part-time work. Never use an agency which asks you for money; regulated agencies earn their fees from the employer.
Agencies tend to specialise in certain types of work and can offer both permanent and temporary contracts. Register with the ones that offer the kind of jobs that you are interested in. Local recruitment agencies include:
- Advantage Group - business, industrial and technical roles.
- Assist Support - public sector, housing association, retail and business work, including Morrisons.
- Brook Street - office and light industrial work.
- Headway Recruitment - office, management and engineering sectors.
- Interaction Recruitment - customer service and office work.
- Office Angels - secretarial, administration and office-based work.
- Premier Education - education and teaching.
- Reed - office, education, light industrial and health work.
- Stafforce - manufacturing and industrial work.
The REC website gives a list of members and useful advice on using the services of a recruitment agency, and the SAFERJobs website also has advice about working with recruitment companies
Other job sources
Local advertising
Some businesses looking for part-time employees put adverts in their windows, or on a noticeboard outside their premises. There are lots of shops and businesses in Bradford city centre and Forster Square Retail Park.
Friends and other contacts
One effective way of getting a part-time job is through word of mouth, so make sure that you let your friends and family know that you are looking for part-time work (you could also post on social media) as they may have some helpful ideas or may even know of a vacancy.
Be aware of scam jobs
Young people are amongst the most defrauded jobseekers in Britain, so it pays to take precautions when looking for a job. The Jobs Aware website offers advice and information to help protect job seekers from falling prey to scam jobs.
Working on campus
Finding a job on campus
There are a limited number of jobs available on campus, including admin and clerical posts, jobs within the Student Union and student mentors.
Career and Employability Services manage the University’s vacancies for casual and part-time staff. All opportunities are advertised through Handshake. Please register here to search and apply for part-time work. If you get a job on campus, you will also have the option to join the University Work Register for one year. The University Work Register provides temporary staff for all areas of the University if they are needed.
Student Ambassador roles are also a good opportunity to represent the University and gain work experience. Look out for roles on Handshake and adverts across campus.
Contracts for on-campus work
If you are offered a job on campus, you will need to make an appointment with Nicola Crowther to arrange a contract before you start work.
You will need to book a 15-minute slot via the above link and then bring the following documents with you:
- Your bank details
- Your passport or full British birth certificate (A4 size)
- Your National Insurance card or evidence of national insurance, e.g. tax form or old payslip
- Your student ID card.
If you have had a job on campus previously and would like to renew your contract, we just need to see:
- Your student ID card
- Your passport or full British birth certificate (A4 size).
Please note: we will not produce a contract for you unless you have been offered a specific job on campus.
If you have any other questions relating to contracts or payments, please email Nicola Crowther
Applying for part-time work
Advertised jobs
If you are interested in an advertised job, read the advert closely and follow the instructions on how to submit your application – this is likely to be via an online form or CV and covering letter, but make sure you are supplying exactly what is asked for to ensure your application is considered
You can find advice on our applying for jobs pages on:
- Application forms
- CVs
- Covering letters
However you may not need to go into the same level of detail on your CV for part-time work as you would for a graduate-level role, so a one-page CV should be acceptable. Here are some examples of CVs for part-time work, along with a covering letter.
Speculative applications
If you know what work you’d like to do, or if you know of an employer who regularly takes on part-time staff (e.g. in a bar or restaurant), visit them and ask if they are recruiting – make sure you take a copy of your CV. If they don’t accept CVs, they may ask you to fill in an application form. You could telephone or write, but make sure to send your CV and a covering letter.
Further help
Please feel free to come and speak to us if you have any more questions about searching and applying for part-time work. We offer a few different types of appointments depending on your needs:
-  Quick queries appointments for initial CV checks and general queries
- Appointments with an Employer and Placement Services Adviser (for help finding and applying for jobs)
- An appointment with a Career Consultant (for feedback on applications)
- Book an appointment now via Handshake Career Centre

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/career-and-employability-services-intranet/SitePages/Application-forms.aspx

Career and Employability Services
Application forms
Application forms are an opportunity for you to demonstrate to recruiters that you have the appropriate skills, personal qualities and experience for a role, and the potential to be successful. They are generally used in the first stage of the recruitment process to shortlist candidates for interviews or assessment centres.
Getting started
What to include
An effective application, whether it's by CV, covering letter or application form will contain the same key information about you, so prepare now to make applying for any job more straightforward.
Firstly, take a blank sheet of paper (or open a new Word document) and list your experience, achievements and skills:
Experience and achievements
This should include your university, college and school education, any work experience, placements or volunteering, involvement in the community, university societies and sports clubs, plus any positions of responsibility you have held.
Include any achievements which you are proud of or which demonstrate transferable skills, such as awards, prizes, travel, hobbies and interests.
Skills
Even if your experience is unrelated to the roles which you are applying for, anything which you have listed in ‘experience and achievements’ will demonstrate your skills
For example, working as a sales assistant might have developed your ability to communicate with different people, work under pressure at busy times and handle difficult customers. Likewise, a university group project may demonstrate that you could work within a set timescale, meet objectives, and work as part of a team.
Tailoring your application
Match your skills and experience with what the employer is looking for and you will have the basis of a really effective application. To do this, you will need to know about the role and organisation:
Research the job
Read the job specification, or other information provided about the job carefully, and research the occupation. What is it exactly that the organisation will expect you to do? How can you demonstrate you have the skills that they require within your application?
Go through each of the requirements of the job and give an example of how you have comparable skills and experience.
Research the organisation
Why do you want to work for this organisation specifically? Employers will understand that you may be applying for a few different roles, but expect you to demonstrate an understanding of their organisation and the nature of their business. Visit the employer’s own website but also look for information about the employer on business and news websites.
Try and reflect the way the organisation writes about itself in your application (without just copying and pasting!). This shows you have done your homework and you understand what the company is all about, and also helps to demonstrate how you would be a good fit for the role.
Completing the Form
Give yourself plenty of time to complete an application form, and allow time to review what you have written before submitting it.
Aim to send the form as early as you can once it has been advertised, as some employers close their recruitment when a certain number of applications have been received - don't wait for the closing date
Read the instructions carefully and fill in all the required sections :
Personal details
This section is fairly self-explanatory, asking you for your name, address and contact details, and possibly other information such as date of birth and whether you hold a driving licence.
Education
- Present your qualifications to display your best results prominently.
- Insert your qualifications in reverse chronological (date) order - put the most recent first
- List your highest grades for each set of examinations at the top of each list.
If the form asks for specific qualifications which it is not easy for you to list – for instance, if it asks for UCAS points when you have international high school qualifications– ask Career and Employability Services on how best to present your own set of qualifications.
Employment / work experience
Start with the most recent and use reverse date order for your employment details unless the instructions say otherwise. Describe your duties and responsibilities, linking them where you can with the skills the employer is asking for.
Include information about voluntary work, particularly if it is related to the role or if you don’t have a lot of work experience, the transferable skills you have gained are still of value to employers.
If you have insufficient space for all your jobs, you can group similar jobs together or summarise your experience.
Make the most of this section by drawing attention to particular achievements you have accomplished at work or when volunteering.
Supporting statements
This is often a blank text box in which to write your statement, so you may find that it is easiest to break the supporting statement down into different sections. You can create your own headers from the job description or person specification to demonstrate your skills in an easily readable manner.
Alternatively, these may be grouped as competency questions, which are specific scenario-based questions set by the employer which you are required to answer.
There is no need to formally introduce your supporting statement as you would with a covering letter.
Referees
It is usual to include the details of two referees – usually a current or previous employer, plus an academic referee such as your tutor or course leader. Remember to ask your referees for permission before adding their details to your application.
Additional information
Here you can add any information which you feel is relevant to your application, but has not been covered elsewhere on the application form.
You can also use this to list dates you are not available for interview, or to attach a covering letter or scans of your qualifications, etc.
Equal opportunities
This section will remain confidential to the Human Resources department and will not affect the recruitment process. It will be used to monitor equal opportunities policies and often asks for your gender, sexual orientation, date of birth, nationality, ethnic origin, disability, etc.
Disclosing disability
Some forms ask if you consider yourself to be disabled. Please see the Disability Service website, our careers resources for disabled students and Equality pages for more information, and you can email us if you have any questions or concerns about this.
Criminal records disclosure
This section is usually stored separately from your application form to protect confidentiality. Details that you provide will be treated confidentially, and will not automatically exclude you from being considered for vacancies.
Hints and tips for online applications
- Download a copy of the application form so that you can complete it offline in a Word document to start with. This means that you can use Word’s spellcheck and word count, as many online forms don’t have a spelling or grammar check function.
- Don’t automatically cut and paste information from other application forms or your CV, without adapting it to suit exactly what the form is asking for.
- Most online forms don’t let you use features such as bullet points, but you should still make sure your layout is clear and easy to read.
- Some forms may also include personality questionnaires. The best advice for these is just to go with your immediate response and give an honest answer.
- Keep a copy of your form - it will be useful at the interview stage.
- If you have any questions about how to complete the form, book an appointment with us. Some employers may also have a FAQs section on their websites giving advice.
Answering competency based questions
“Describe a situation where you have worked as part of a team. What was your role? What did you do? How did you overcome problems? What was the outcome?”
Competency questions such as the above can be tricky to answer, but using the STAR technique can help you structure your answers and fully demonstrate your skills and experience.
S = Define the Situation
T = Identify the Task
A = Describe your Action
R = Explain the Result
Here's how to use it to structure your answers, along with an example answer to the question "How can you demonstrate your experience and skill in providing excellent customer care, particularly when dealing with difficult customers?"
Define the SITUATION: (where were you; what were you doing? what was the context)
During my part-time work in a large local hotel I dealt with a difficult situation involving a customer who wanted a drink after last orders. The man became rude and offensive when I told him that I could not serve him as last orders had been called five minutes ago. His behaviour was affecting other guests, and I could see the embarrassment being caused by his shouting and foul language.
Identify the TASK: ( what was your aim? what was the problem?)
Recognising the need to take control of the situation so that all customers could enjoy their time at the hotel, I decided to try to calm the customer down.
Describe the ACTION you took: (be clear about what you did)
I knew that he was a speaker at an important conference being held in the hotel and, to keep things discreet, I tried to deal with this without calling security. I calmly repeated the fact that I could not serve him and offered him a glass of water. I also told him that in his hotel room his mini bar would be stocked with drinks.
The man continued to shout and referred to his position as a key speaker at the conference. I politely told him that I could not make exceptions to the bar rules and that if he continued to behave in that way I would have to have him removed from the bar.
Highlight the RESULT you achieved: (what was the outcome of your actions, what did you achieve?)
On hearing this, the man quietened down and accepted the situation. I offered to organise an early morning telephone call for him the next day to give him enough time to get ready for his conference presentation. The following morning the man passed me in the hotel and apologised for his behaviour in the bar.
Top tips for answering competency questions
- Stay focused on your own actions (you are the STAR!)
- Use positive language to reflect your achievements.
- Be specific with the detail in your answers e.g. 'I was responsible for handling and resolving up to 50 queries per day.'
- Avoid making vague statements that may sound good but provide no specific information about what you did such as “the project team created a plan...”
- Avoid giving opinions about a situation or task.
- Avoid making theoretical statements such as “I would do…” or “I always…” as these provide no information about what you actually did.
- Try to choose examples with positive outcomes. However, if you did not meet the aims/objectives, state what you’ve learnt from the experience, e.g. “ I have learnt from my mistakes and have become a more confident and self assured person as a result.”
Variations on STAR
There are several versions of the technique which are used to answer interview and application form questions. The most regularly used are:
- STAR-D: Situation, Task, Action, Result, D = what you would have done differently)
- SBO: Situation, Behaviour, Outcome
- CAR: Context, Action, Result.
All of these will help you provide a full answer, so you can use which ever you feel most comfortable with.
Other common challenging questions
Describe your most significant academic achievement
Some questions, such as this one, have no right or wrong answer. This particular question is aimed at finding out what motivates you, or the things you value. Try to link your answer to the qualities the employer is looking for.
Why do you want to work for this organisation?
An employer wants to be convinced that you have researched their organisation and have thought about why you want to work for them. This is your chance to provide a good quality answer with interesting, well considered reasons. Steer clear of shallow and obvious reasons and use this space to demonstrate you have a clear understanding of what the employer does, their values and company ethos.
What attracts you to this kind of work?
You need to show that you know what the job involves and can express why you are suitable for it. Refer to specific aspects of the job which appeal to you, not just “retail has always interested me”. Have you had any work experience in this field or spoken to someone doing this type of work? If so, what did you find out which confirmed your decision to apply for this kind of job?
Personal statements
The purpose of a personal statement is to allow the employer to decide if you meet their requirements. Unlike competency questions (see above section), you will only have one field to complete. This field will often be preceded by a statement such as “in this space, please give your reasons for applying for this job and information showing how you meet the person specification, including relevant skills and experience”. As it is one block of text, you are given the chance to write freely about your suitability as a candidate, without being restricted to specific questions.
Planning your personal statement
A personal statement needs to be well-structured, logical, clearly written, and free from grammatical and spelling errors. Speak about your reasons for applying for the post and your understanding of the particular organisation, as well as your skills, experience, and relevance of your studies if applicable. It may help you to consider it from the employer’s perspective. What would they like to hear from candidates? Make it reader-friendly and positive, and tailor it to the job description and person specification as closely as possible.
You can divide a personal statement into different sections through subheadings. Take the titles of your subheadings from the person specification, to make it easy for the employer to check that you have covered all the relevant points. Any essential criteria in the person specification must be addressed, plus as many desirable criteria as possible.
If the vacancy details do not include a person specification, use the job description, advert and company information to understand what skills they want.
What to include
Think about what you can bring to the job, paying close attention to the employer’s requirements as detailed in the person specification. Some suggestions of what to include in your statement are:
Your reasons for applying for the job
- If you are asked to give your reasons for applying for this job, this can be a good starting point for your personal statement. This is an opportunity to demonstrate your understanding of the job, your motivation to do that kind of work and your interest in that particular organisation. You need to give strong reasons for applying for this particular role.
- Keep the focus of your answer on what you can do for the employer, not what the employer can do for you.
The relevance of your studies at university
- Your degree subjects might be directly relevant to the job, in which case emphasise any modules and your dissertation which are particularly useful. If your degree is not relevant, there will still be transferable skills you have developed on your course which the employer is likely to be interested in. See the section below on skills for more about this.
Your work experience, including voluntary work
- This is important to refer to, even though you will have recorded this on another part of the form. Experience in the workplace will have given you an appreciation of employers’ perspectives, their business needs and their expectations of their employees.
- Draw attention to any particular achievements and responsibilities you have experienced at work and the transferable skills you have gained, unless you have written about these in some detail already elsewhere on the form.
Skills
- Providing evidence of the skills the employer requires is usually a key part of a personal statement. Make sure that you complement rather than duplicate any sections you have filled in about your skills in competency based questions
- Give examples of when you have used the skills, but in a more concise way than you would in the competency based questions sections, if these occur on the form.
Interests and responsibilities
- These can show you to be a well rounded person and can also provide evidence of some of the personal qualities and skills the employer is looking for.
- State what you have got out of hobbies rather than just listing them e.g. have you been able to show leadership ability through your interests, taken part in team based activities or shown excellent planning and organisational ability
Final Points
- Keep to any word limits and check to see if you are invited to continue on a separate sheet.
- Avoid long, complex sentences and be clear and concise. Use positive language and express your enthusiasm for the job.
- Check your draft statement for spelling and grammatical errors.
Don't forget that when you have written a personal statement you can get it checked by a Career Consultant
Top tips for personal statements
- Keep to any word limits and check to see if you are invited to continue on a separate sheet, if you wish to.
- Be clear and concise and avoid long, complex sentences. Use positive language to express your enthusiasm.
- Check your draft statement for spelling and grammatical errors.
- Use formal English at all times (i.e. no slang or jargon).
- Ask yourself after each sentence: is this relevant? Does it add to the statement or is it just a ‘filler’? If so, you could be using that space more to your advantage.
- Don’t focus on what you haven’t got to offer. You will only create a negative impression of yourself. For instance, if you can’t meet one of the desirable criteria but do want to mention it in your statement, write about how you would go about meeting it in the future. Perhaps, for instance, you have not used a specific type of software which is desirable; instead, you could mention the fact that you have used similar databases, have transferable skills and that you are a quick learner.
- Allow plenty of time to write this section; it may seem straightforward but you should always proofread carefully.
- If you have particular information which you want to provide, for instance a prize or scholarship, sporting achievement or anything else which doesn’t fit easily into your personal statement, this could go in the Additional Information section.
- Arrange to see a career consultant for feedback on what you have written.
- Keep a copy of your form. It will be useful at the interview stage
Example personal statement
This example uses the requirements of the person specification as headings to specifically address each point.
Business and Technical IT Consultant - Person specification
- A degree in Business, Economics, Finance, Science, Technology, Engineering or Mathematics.
- Have a genuine interest in business and IT with a drive towards achieving a successful career.
- Excellent communication and interpersonal skills.
- An analytical, problem solving mind-set.
- Proven ability to work under pressure within a fast-paced and challenging environment.
- You are a team player who takes the initiative and shows a high level of commitment.
- Geographic flexibility throughout the UK.
Please demonstrate how you meet the Key Criteria on the person specification
I believe my education, skills and experience make me a strong candidate for the role of Business and Technical IT Consultant and feel that I would grow into the role and make a real contribution to the company. I have outlined below how I meet the criteria of the person specification:
A degree in Business, Economics, Finance, Science, Technology, Engineering or Mathematics
I graduated from the University of Bradford in July 2019 with a BSc (Hons) in Business Economics 2:1. My studies gave me an excellent grounding in core economic ideas, how these apply to business and the environment within which firms operate, plus proficiency in IT software such as Microsoft Office and economics applications including SAGE.
Have a genuine interest in business and IT with a drive towards achieving a successful career
My studies confirmed to me that I am definitely interested in pursuing a career in business economics, and I consistently scored high marks in modules where the use of IT tools was necessary to analyse and assess data. In addition, I received a special recognition award for my placement year as a business analyst at Yorkshire Bank where I further developed my technical skills and commercial awareness.
I would appreciate the chance to develop my career at your company, as your close links with the University have given me the chance to see how other alumni have gone on to successful and satisfying careers and this is something I hope to emulate.
Excellent communication and interpersonal skills
Through group working on projects at university, my role as a career ambassador and my part-time job at Tesco I have developed excellent communication and interpersonal skills. I have been required to negotiate disagreements between fellow students, communicate information about careers to a wide range of students from varying backgrounds and work closely with my team-mates at Tesco to ensure customers were served promptly and efficiently. My good working relationships meant I was promoted to team leader in the produce department.
An analytical, problem solving mind-set
My final year dissertation involved the analysis of a small business. Looking at its finances and other factors I put together suggestions to improve the efficiency of the organisation, particularly through the use of a new IT system, to increase profitability by an estimated 25%.
Proven ability to work under pressure within a fast-paced and challenging environment
My job at Tesco has given me lots of experience working under pressure, particularly during the Christmas period where customer footfall and product turnover is at its highest. After a year on the produce team working weekends, I was made team leader in the lead up to Christmas.
I was responsible for monitoring stock levels and ensuring my team communicated effectively and worked together to ensure all customers were served satisfactorily and all products were available on the shop floor.
You are a team player who takes the initiative and shows a high level of commitment
When working on a group project at university, it soon became clear that one of our group was not participating fully. I decided to take the initiative and call a group meeting to discuss the sharing of the workload. At the meeting, it turned out the person didn’t fully understand what was expected of him and was struggling with some of the details. I took it upon myself to spend some time to help him understand these details and I kept in touch regularly to make sure the project stayed on track. The project was a success and our group achieved the highest mark in the class.
Geographic flexibility throughout the UK
I am willing to relocate for the role and am happy to travel as necessary. I have a full clean driving licence and enjoy experiencing new cities and people.
Next steps and further information
- Appointments with Career Consultants: Once you have a draft copy of your application form, we recommend that you arrange to see a Career Consultant for feedback on what you have written.
- Careers Workshops: See the schedule of our regular workshops on a wide range of topics including application forms.
- Build My Career: Log in to Build my Career, our online career management resource to access advice on completing your application form and personal statement, plus interactive help, videos and more.
- Useful words and phrases: If you are finding it difficult to find words to describe yourself and your experience, see our useful words and phrases page for suggestions that can help you portray a positive and proactive image.
- Useful websites
  -- Check Prospects' application form hints and tips
  -- TARGETjobs also has useful information on application forms
  -- UCAS advice on wiriting a PGCE personal statement

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/career-and-employability-services-intranet/SitePages/Equality.aspx

Career and Employability Services
Equality
Equality Act 2010 protects everyone in Britain from discrimination, harassment, victimisation or any other type of unfavourable treatment in the workplace. This means the employer or recruiter has a legal obligation to make sure you are treated fairly during the recruitment process and your employment.
The Act is made up of nine protected characteristics which are described below, along with links to further information:
Age
It is unlawful for your age to be the cause of less favourable treatment in your workplace or in vocational training. Find out more about age discrimination and how and where it may affect you:
- Equality Human Rights- The information in this section will guide you through the rights that you have to equality and what to do when you experience discrimination.
- Age Positive - Now archived, this site holds resources around age and employment.
Sex (Gender)
Unlawful sex discrimination happens when someone is treated unfairly because of their gender.
You may be discriminated against because you are, or are not, a particular sex, someone mistakes your gender, or you are connected to someone of a particular sex.
Marriage and transgender are also related protected characteristics, see below.
Race
It is unlawful for a person to discriminate on racial grounds against another person. The law defines racial grounds as including race, colour, nationality (including citizenship) or ethnic or national origins.
On the Equality Human Rights website find out more about race discrimination, your legal rights and what to do if you are being discriminated against.
Religion and Belief
Under the Equality Act 2010, you have the right to hold your own religious beliefs or other philosophical beliefs similar to a religion. You also have the right to have no religion or belief. It is unlawful for an employer to treat you unfairly on any of these grounds.
Marriage and Civil Partnership
Those who are married or in a civil partnership are also protected against discrimination in employment under the Equality Act 2010
This includes marriage between a man and woman and same-sex partnerships.
Disability
The Equality Act 2010 says a disabled person is someone with a physical or mental impairment which has a substantial and long-term adverse effect on his ability to carry out normal day-to-day activities.
Examples include cancer, diabetes, multiple sclerosis and heart conditions; hearing or sight impairments, or a significant mobility difficulty; and mental health conditions or learning difficulties. People in these circumstances and some others (such as people with a facial disfigurement) are likely to have rights under the Equality Act 2010 to protect them from discrimination. However, only the courts can say if a particular individual is defined as disabled under the legislation.
- The Disability Service at the University of Bradford can offer you assistance and guidance on disability during your studies.
- See also our Resources for disabled students
Sexual Orientation
Unlawful sexual orientation discrimination happens when someone is treated less favourably due to their sexual orientation, their perceived sexual orientation, or the sexual orientation of those they associate with. You are legally protected from this type of discrimination by the Equality Act 2010.
Related article: Should I Be Open About Being LGBT+ When Applying For A Job? from Forbes.
Pregnancy and Maternity
It is unlawful for an employer to treat an employee unfavourably if they are pregnant or have issues related to the pregnancy including illness. See an overview of the details on the quality and Human Rights website.
Maternity leave is also covered under the Equality Act legislation, as well as any unfair treatment upon returning to work.
Gender reassignment
Trans people often experience discrimination - some of this discrimination is unlawful and covered by equality legislation
Trans (or Transgender) is an umbrella term used by people whose gender identity and/or gender expression differs from their birth sex. The term includes, but is not limited to, transsexual people and others who define as gender-variant.
Trans people may or may not choose to alter their bodies hormonally and/or surgically. Known as gender reassignment or transition this is usually a complex process that takes place over a long period of time.
The Equality Act 2010 contains protections for people who plan to undergo, are undergoing, or have undergone gender reassignment. Some transgender people are not covered by the gender reassignment provisions in the SDA but are still protected from discrimination on the basis of their birth sex by the SDA.
More information
- The University of Bradford equality and diversity policies
- The Equality Advisory Support Service provides advice if you think you may have been treated unfairly. Tel 0808 8000082 Textphone 0808 800 0084
- There is also an Advice and Guidance page on the Equality and Human Rights Commission website.
- Vercida supports companies and job seekers with diversity and equality issues.

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/career-and-employability-services-intranet/SitePages/Psychometric-tests.aspx

Career and Employability Services
Psychometric tests
Selection tests, including psychometric tests, are set by some employers to help them to find out if you have the required skills, aptitude and personality to carry out the role successfully. Not all jobs will require you to complete a test prior to employment and you should be given clear instructions on what to do if they are required.
You could be asked to complete a selection test as part of the initial application, or at any point during the interview process. Tests may be done at home on a computer or at an assessment centre.
What are psychometric tests?
There are two types of psychometric tests: aptitude tests and personality questionnaires
Aptitude tests
Aptitude tests (sometimes just called psychometric tests) may be set by an employer to determine your skillset, knowledge and ability in particular areas.
The most common types of test are:
- Verbal reasoning tests – to test your ability to interpret and understand written arguments.
- Numerical reasoning tests – to test your ability to interpret and understand data in tables and charts.
- Diagrammatic reasoning tests – to test your ability to extract and apply logical rules from a series of diagrams and symbols.
- Spatial reasoning tests - to test your ability to visualise objects in space and imagine 3D objects, useful in engineering and design roles.
Completing a psychometric aptitude test
You usually need to complete this test on a computer. This may be online at home on your own computer before shortlisting, before or after an interview, or on location at an assessment centre.
It will be timed and, if taken at interview or at an assessment centre, is taken under exam conditions. If you do not finish the test in time, try not to worry – you are not always expected to finish all the questions. Generally, try to complete questions to an accurate standard, rather than rushing through to complete as many questions as possible.
Sometimes, you will be allowed paper or a calculator to help. The employer should provide information on what is required beforehand. If in doubt, ask.
After you have completed your test, the results will be calculated. Your results may be compared with other candidates’ results, or rated against an expected standard.
Personality questionnaires
Personality questionnaires ask questions about your interests, values and motivations, through which recruiters can analyse if your personality fits in well with the ethos, service area and cause of the organisation.
It is likely that you will complete these tests at home at your own computer early on in the recruitment process, although you may also be required to complete them at an assessment centre. These are generally made up of lots of very short statements where you are required to indicate how strongly you agree with each one. There are no right or wrong answers, and you are unlikely to be strictly timed.
The employer will gain an insight into your personality to see if it matches what they are looking for in an employee. However, do not try and tailor your responses to what you think will be favourable. It is impossible to tell what employers are looking for in candidates on this level, and there are built-in checks to ensure your answers are consistent (you may notice that similar questions come up multiple times) – these tests can be a clever way to judge your integrity, as well as your personality. An employer is trying to work out you do things, not how well.
In preparation, you can familiarise yourself with the format, but as the tests are entirely based on your honest responses, you don’t need to practice to improve your chances of being successful.
Another personality measure is the Myers-Briggs Type Indicator (MBTI) and similar tests. Although there is growing scepticism about their usefulness, an employer may ask you to complete a test like this.
Situational Judgement Tests (SJTs)
SJTs are multiple-choice tests which give an employer an idea of how you behave under certain circumstances, where you will be presented with a scenario and multiple possible responses.
These tests are usually done online. They will usually occur early in the recruitment process, often from your own home computer as part of the application form. On the web page, you will be presented with a scenario and multiple possible responses.
You may be asked to select the one response which most fits in with your working style, or to rank the responses in order of your own personal preference, or mark which you would be most and least likely to do.
As with personality tests, you cannot practice for this in the same way you would a verbal or numerical test as there are no strict right and wrong answers but it is objective. Be as truthful as possible – if you do not score highly, this may usefully indicate that you would not enjoy the role, so it is best to be honest. However, you can see online examples at Assessment Day
Top tips
- If you can, practice so you are familiar with the test style and format. Simply getting comfortable with completing online tests and doing number and word puzzles can increase your score (see below for some suggestions).
- Think about what particular test you might face for your type of job or industry.
- Look on similar companies’ websites for examples and ‘past papers’.
- Don’t panic: aptitude tests don’t require advanced algebra or knowledge of Shakespeare. Brush up on GCSE level maths and practice good grammar.
- Take everything you need, including a watch, and read instructions carefully. If you are not given an indication of what to take (if at an interview or assessment centre) contact the employer beforehand to ask.
- If there is no right or wrong answer within the type of test you are completing, answer honestly.
- Don’t dwell on questions – if you are unsure of an answer, move on. Use any time left to check your answers, but don’t be disheartened if you don’t finish all the questions, as the tests are meant to be challenging.
Our Practice Test Portal from Graduates First
University of Bradford students and graduates now have access to a range of full-length practice tests from Graduates First for free!
The portal includes:
- Seven verbal reasoning tests
- Seven numerical reasoning tests
- Seven logical reasoning tests
- Game-based assessment
- Workstyle Personality Questionnaire (WPQ)
- Question Identifier Tool (QIT)
- Situational Judgement Test (SJT)
- Automated video interview practice
- Plus a range of Assessment Centre Exercises
Registration and login details
- Current students: Register with your university email address to activate your account.Complete the biographical details fully so that your results can be compared to other similar students and graduates, and you will receive an email to complete your registration.
- For graduates: please email us at careers@bradford.ac.uk stating your name, UB number and personal email address and we will set up an account for you.
Any issues?: please email us with your details and we will get back to you as soon as possible.
Hints and tips for using the practice test portal
- Click on the Help button at the top left of the page for detailed instructions on how to use the site and interpret your reports.
- Make sure you have time to complete each test, as a visit to one of the tests counts as one session (even if you don’t attempt any questions) which may affect your results.
- You will receive a detailed report after you complete each test. The report categories are: how well did you do?, strengths and development areas and  improve your performance.Your test results are confidential and only you can access them – if you want to discuss them with a Careers Consultant, you will need to provide a copy.
- You will be able to look at step-by-step solutions to any questions you got incorrect to see where you went wrong.
- You can come back into the site at any point in the future, to revisit reports and use any remaining free test sessions or attempt any of the tests again.
- Check out the videos (on the right of the screen) for tips on passing the tests, how to increase your scores and more.
More practice tests
In addition to the Graduates First portal, there are also free online tests at the following sites:
- Try the free tests on Assessment Day (look for the free sample button).
- A selection of short practice tests on Wikijob
- PracticeAptitudeTests.com also have a range of useful resources and and practice tests.
- Test Partnership have trial tests (click on the Candidate Preparation links for the free trial versions).
- More free selection tests via Job Test Prep, The Institute of Psychometric Coaching and Assessment Training
- Practice tests and advice from Practice Reasoning Tests.
- Practice4Me free practice materials for aptitude tests, SJT and personality tests including study guides, sample questions and sample tests.
There are plenty of free tests available online, so you should be able to practise these tests without having to pay anything.
Help from Careers
If you'd like more help with any type of selection test, you can book an in-depth appointment with a Career Consultant who can suggest strategies you may find helpful.
If you have any further questions or you are looking for more tests, please get in touch with us or come into careers reception.
We also have books in the Careers reception that can help you prepare and practise.

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/career-and-employability-services-intranet/SitePages/Resources-for-disabled-students.aspx

Career and Employability Services
Resources for disabled students
Sources of employment support and advice
- AADD-UK Raising awareness, help and support for adults with ADHD. Includes list of regional support groups.
- AGCAS Disability Task Group Blog Analysis, tips, interviews and guest posts which shine a light on developments and issues in the area of disability.
- Association of Disabled Professionals Provides employment advice and information plus peer support for disabled professionals.
- Blind in Business General support for visually impaired job applicants including interview training. Also can provide readers for selection tests and assessment centres.
- Breakthrough UK Manchester based organisation offering employment support and training to disabled people.
- British Dyslexia Association Provides dyslexia information for those in or seeking employment. Includes advice on getting an assessment, help in finding a job and reasonable adjustments.
- Disability Rights UK Support and advice on a range of work issues including benefits and careers, education and leadership.
- EmployAbility Offers support, advice and guidance on the recruitment process and disclosure. Works directly with many employers including Google, Goldman Sachs, NHS and Barclays
- Equality and Human Rights Commission Provides information on disability related legalisation, plus general advice.
- Incluzy Search for jobs from inclusive employers, plus resources for employers and employees on autism, ADHD and more.
- Law Society - Lawyers With Disabilities Division Promoting equality of opportunity for solicitors, would-be solicitors and clients with disabilities.
- My Plus Student's Club Provides information on managing a disability or long-term health condition when applying for jobs and going through the recruitment process, including; disclosure, requesting adjustments and support. Also includes employers and opportunities.
- National Autistic Society (NAS) Offers support to students and graduates with preparation and transition to work through their Prospects employment service.
- Shaw Trust Employment Advisers provide advice on searching and applying for jobs.
- Vercida supports companies and job seekers with diversity and equality issues.
Employment programmes and disability-friendly employers
If you wish to consider employers who run specific employment programmes for disabled people or those who are committed to having a diverse workforce the organisations below may be of interest.
- BBC Extend Programme is a BBC-wide work placement scheme which offers appropriately qualified disabled people the opportunity to gain a 6 month (24 week) paid work placement within the BBC.
- Business Disability Forum Members of this organisation are ‘2 ticks’ employers who are positive about employing disabled people; see the list of members
- Change100 a paid internship programme lasting 3 months with a range of employers with mentoring and guidance provided.
- Civil Service – Summer Placement Scheme Offers 6-9 week paid placements to develop skills for Civil Service fast stream entry.
- Even Break - Matches employers who value diversity with disabled candidates
- Mindful Employer Includes a Charter of Employers who are positive about mental health and working towards a set of principles:
- Remploy Employment service offering employment advice, training and placements for disabled people, including CV and application help and advice on disclosure and benefits.
- Scope Employment Service Provides access to employment services for disabled people.
Government Initiatives
Access to work
Helps pay for practical support to assist disabled individuals seeking or in employment, such as:
- Support and equipment at work
- Help towards transport costs if public transport not accessible to the individual.
- Finance to support an individual at the interview stage.
Check if you qualify for Access to Work.
Work choice This supports disabled individuals whose needs cannot be met through Access to Work.
Legislation
Equality Act 2010 protects jobseekers and employees from discrimination on the basis of disability.
See the Disability Service webpages for more information about the support and advice you can receive as a University of Bradford student.

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/career-and-employability-services-intranet/SitePages/International-Students.aspx

Career and Employability Services
International Students
International students are an important part of the University of Bradford and we want to do all we can to help you with your career prospects and finding work during your studies.
Many international students work part-time and in vacations whilst studying as it can provide valuable work experience, enhance language skills and give insights into different cultures.
Which students are classed as International Students?
The UK officially left the European Union on January 1 2021, and as a result all students from outside the UK are now classed as International. Visa restrictions now apply to EU students, so please check the Visa Support pages our information about working in the UK for updated details of the new UK regulations.
There is more information on the GOV.UK website.
Help from careers
Career and employability services are here to help, and our services include:
- Quick queries appointments
- Careers guidance appointments
- Employability workshops
Further help and advice
Support within the University
- University of Bradford International Office offers a range of advice on living and studying in Bradford including visas, working in the UK, study abroad and preparing to return home.
- Visa Support advisers offer drop-in sessions every weekday from 11.00am to 12.00pm, at MyBradford - Student Services, Richmond Building.
- The Language Centre offers a wide range of English language classes and support depending on your current level of English.
Other resources
- The official British Council website offers a range of information about studying in the UK from regional and city guides to course search and scholarships.
- GOV.UK for information and application for work and student visas.
- UK Council for International Student Affairs (UKCISA) offers advice for international students about studying and working in the UK.

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/career-and-employability-services-intranet/SitePages/Covering-letters.aspx

Career and Employability Services
Covering letters
A covering letter usually accompanies a CV and can be used for applications by post or online. If an advert asks you to ‘apply in writing’ or ‘send your CV’, you should also send a covering letter.
The purpose of the covering letter is to get the reader to look at your CV by introducing and highlighting some of your key selling points. It is also your opportunity to give more detail about some of the points of your CV. Your letter will form the employer’s opinion of you as a candidate before they have even met you, so make sure it is written to create a positive impression of yourself.
Covering letter guideline
Here are our suggestions on the key sections to help you write and lay out your covering letter. Your letter should be limited to one side of A4 with short paragraphs to make it easy to read. It should be laid out in a professional business style format and if sending with a CV it needs to look like a professional package - your covering letter should have the same style and size of font as your CV, and use the same paper for both.
Dear (Name of person applying to e.g. Ms Berry or Sir or Madam),
RE: JOB TITLE OF ROLE APPLYING FOR (plus Reference number if relevant)
Speculative letters also need a title e.g. ‘CIVIL ENGINEERING PLACEMENT OPPORTUNITIES 2017/18’
Section 1 – This should be where you clearly state what position you have applied for – if you choose not to list it as shown above. You may find it useful to say where and when you saw it advertised, or if a speculative application what type of role you are seeking. You can inform the employer at this point of the degree/course title you are studying/have studied, how relevant to the role applied for and possibly your classification if graduated. Maybe also let them know that your CV is attached for their information.
Section 2* – This is really your opportunity to sell yourself to the role by showing what it is that you have to offer that makes you an ideally suited candidate and one that they must progress to the next stage of selection. To do this, you should address the key requirements of the role by highlighting what relevant skills, qualities, qualifications and work experience you have to offer the organisation. Employers prefer applicants to give specific evidence showing how they have a particular skill. For example, if the advert specified someone with good influencing skills: “Last summer, I worked for a market research company where on one Saturday, I successfully persuaded over 40 shoppers to stop and answer questions relating to their buying habits, despite their initial reluctance”. Do not directly repeat what is on your CV but pull out the points the employer will be most interested in.
Section 3* – This is your chance to say what particularly attracts you to the organisation to which you are applying. It is essential you show that you have carried out research and thought about why you are applying. It is a chance to show that you know what they do and possibly what particular projects or work the organisation is doing that attracts you to them. Re-read the job advert, check out the website, company literature and any relevant articles and journals. Don't mention salary, holidays, etc. - concentrate on the strengths and successes of the organisation such as their goods, services, research etc.
Section 4 – Try to finish off your letter on a positive note; there are many ways to do this. Suggestions include “I hope you will find my details of interest, however, if you have any queries then please do not hesitate to contact me on the above number. I look forward to hearing from you in the near future.”
Yours sincerely, (if you started with “Dear Name e.g. Ms Berry”) Yours faithfully, (if you started with “Dear Sir or Madam”)
Space for your signature (unless sending electronically; or scan your signature if you wish)
Your name (in full, not initials)
*Sections 2 and 3 can be rearranged as necessary. Use your judgement or ask a career consultant which order makes your application stronger (the sample covering letter for a graduate scheme below is an example of how to change the order to good effect).
Top tips for covering letters
- Send it to a named person. If you are unsure who this should be, phone the organisation and ask – it is much more likely to be read if sent to a specific person.
- Target the letter to the organisation, and explain why – what makes you passionate about working for them specifically?
- Think of your covering letter as a compelling argument to show how you are the best person for the job – remember, the main aim of the covering letter is to get your CV read.
- Keep it to one page only and use the same font and formatting as your CV.
- Reflect the terminology in the job description and person specification in your writing.
- Always proofread thoroughly. A good idea is to read it out loud or to get a friend to read it for spelling and grammar mistakes. You can also book an appointment with Career and Employability Services to have an adviser look at your letter before you send it off.
- Avoid continual use of “I”. Think about how to phrase your sentences and paragraphs more effectively.
- Don’t forget to sign if sending by post.
Covering Letter builder
You can also utilise our Covering Letter Builder via the Build My Career resource
It's a step-by-step guide that gives examples for each section and offers suggestions for 'power words' to add impact to your application.
You can then download and save, and make any final adjustments in a Word document.
Next steps and further information
- Advice: Once you have a draft copy of your covering letter, we recommend you come in to see one of our career consultants who will look through your letter and make suggestions for improvement. See the availability and reserve an appointment online.
- Workshops: regular workshop programme covers a wide range of job-seeking and careers-related topics including CVs and covering letters.
- Our employability skills pages feature information on the skills recruiters are looking for, with examples and advice about how to show you have them.
- Prospects.ac.uk also has good information on covering letters, including some examples.

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/career-and-employability-services-intranet/SitePages/Networking--face-to-face-and-online.aspx

Career and Employability Services
Networking: face-to-face and online
How to find jobs that aren't advertised
Some jobs are offered to people already known to the recruiters without being advertised, so if you are job hunting it makes sense to build up your network of contacts.
There are two ways of doing this: face-to-face networking digital networking
Face-to-face networking
You’ll already have your own network of friends, family, academics and previous employers, but you can always do more to build up your network. Effective networking increases your chances of hearing about vacancies, and boosts your knowledge of the labour market.
Here are some suggestions to get you started:
- Ask your family: does anyone in your family know people who work in your chosen career area?
- Get involved in your local community: ask around and see if members of your community can offer information.
- Speak to employers you know: for example, the University of Bradford is a large organisation with lots of different departments, e.g. HR, Finance, IT. If you have a part-time job, ask your manager and colleagues.
- Attend university events: We organise careers fairs and other careers events, such as employer-led workshops, recruitment open days and entrepreneur meetings, offering great networking opportunities. Attend them and talk directly to employers.
- Get in touch with alumni: the University of Bradford has a large alumni, and many will be happy to help. Consider getting in touch with alumni through LinkedIn (see below), perhaps through specific alumni groups.
- Join professional bodies and attend their events: this may help you to establish contacts. Student membership may not be free; make sure you check their website.
Approach people politely and professionally: don’t ask for jobs straight away, and keep in touch afterwards to maintain your connection.
Digital networking - using social media
Digital networking can work in the same way as face-to-face networking, but is done purely online through social media and internet forums.
Advantages of networking digitally as well as face-to-face include:
- Research: as well as connecting with people, you can find out what an organisation does, and who works for them. This can potentially give you an advantage over the other applicants who just read the website.
- Building your digital networks: social media has made it much easier for you to connect with people online who may be able to help with your career planning (e.g. employers, potential recruiters and alumni).
- Recruiting: as well as using social media to market their products and services, many companies also use LinkedIn, Facebook and Twitter to advertise vacancies and even search for prospective applicants.
Your online profile
Once you have connected with a potential employer, many will ‘Google’ you to check out your digital profile and may even assess you as a potential candidate. Make sure the impression employers get is a positive one – keep your digital footprint clean and professional, set your privacy settings and do a regular internet search on your name (while logged out of your social media accounts) to check what comes up. Some employers, such as media and marketing will expect to see that you have an active social media presence.
Top tips
Employers are usually impressed by:
- Professional online photos
- A well written and grammatically correct profile
- Positive recommendations, achievements, qualifications
- A wide range of interests and work experience
- An active social media presence with links to other online activity
LinkedIn
LinkedIn is the key global professional social media platform with a focus on companies, employees and businesses linking with people for business purposes. Currently there are more than 722 million members at October 2020, including more than 30 million in the UK, with students and graduates the fastest growing demographic.
How can LinkedIn help me in my job hunt?
With LinkedIn, you can:
- Establish your online professional identity.
- Make contacts with people in your chosen career area who may be able to advise you.
- Network with alumni and potential recruiters – for instance, you can find out how alumni got to their current positions.
- Find out about industries and companies that interest you, and gain commercial awareness.
- Join groups of like-minded individuals and get involved in vocational discussions.
- Find out about jobs.
- Make introductions and referrals for others
How do I get started?
Download our LinkedIn Building Your Profile factsheet for full details.
Start by building your professional profile as fully as possible and aim for a 100% completed profile so you appear in more searches. It might take a while to achieve this, but it is worth the effort.
- Create an account
- Take a look at other LinkedIn profiles to get some ideas and then start yours.
- Use the headline under your name to display your career goals. If you don’t have a suitable current job title, write a brief description of the type of work you want, so that you show up on searches using these words.
- If your CV is up-to-date and sells you well, upload some information directly into your profile.
- Build your profile as fully as possible to get an ‘All-Star’ rating - detail your education, at least three work experience roles and skills, a professional photo, your location and industry, and 50+ connections. This way, you’ll appear in more searches.
- You can adjust your privacy settings under the 'Me' button on the right of the top menu bar.
- Click 'View Profile' to edit, add content, and rearrange sections.
LinkedIn top tips
- Link with people: search for friends, family, work colleagues, previous employers and other contacts to link with them. You can also use LinkedIn’s search facility to find people who may be able to help you. Do be careful how you approach people; asking politely for information or advice is more acceptable than asking for a job.
- Link with companies: to help with your career research, search for companies to follow. See if any of your contacts work at a company, as this can be useful if you need an introduction or information you wouldn’t normally get from a job description or company website.
- Link to your other accounts: Facebook, Twitter, blog, portfolio and website.
- Get involved in discussions about your career area to raise your profile and expand your network, and ‘like’, share and comment on interesting posts.
- Search for jobs and tailor your settings to let employers know what you are looking for.
- Use key words: recruiters will look for potential job candidates by searching using key words, so make it easy for them to find you.
- Have strong Headline and About sections that state who you are, what are your areas of interest and include those important key words.
- List skills: take advantage of the fact that you can list up to 50 skills on your profile. Encourage your contacts to endorse you and you’ll be more likely to show up in the right searches.
- Show off your expertise: you can add files, video clips and presentations. If you’re a blogger then add links to market your posts.
- Seek recommendations: don’t be afraid to ask for recommendations but be prepared to write one in return.
- Show your personality: unlike a CV, you can inject some personality into your profile. In the summary section you can write in the first person to give an idea of your interests and goals.
- Think about who will see your profile: a CV is about tailored information for a specific audience. It needs to convey the key highlights of your career to date clearly and succinctly. Remember that an online profile may be seen by anyone, including your current or previous boss.
- Use a professional photo: a head and shoulders shot in business dress is best.
Find out more
- Watch a recording of our recent webinar LinkedIn - Getting Started (student login required).
- Next, check out our Unlock the power of LinkedIn webinar recording (student login required).
- LinkedIn's help centre and webinars
- Read our blog posts about LinkedIn
- Career and Employability Services run workshops and interactive labs throughout the year on getting the most out of social media- check out the schedule and book your place now.
Facebook
'Like' our facebook page UniBradCareers
Facebook is a social networking site in which you create a profile to keep in touch with friends and family. You can share photos and updates with people you’re connected to. It can also be used to find out about job opportunities, and for careers research.
How can Facebook help me in my job hunt?
- Many companies advertise opportunities on Facebook, and have careers and graduate recruitment pages.
- With over a billion monthly users, Facebook is a useful networking tool
How do I use it?
- Create a profile
- Make use of status updates: personal updates on your current situation will help you get noticed.
- Your profile can help to inform employers about you - keep it professional and hide anything you don’t want people to see. Either amend your privacy settings or if you are organised keep two separate profiles: one personal, one professional.
Facebook Top Tips
Like and subscribe: you’ll find that the vast majority of companies are on Facebook. Use the search facility to find companies in the field you are looking to enter, industry experts, job sites, recruiters, graduate / placement specialists, alumni groups, and careers specialists. Be aware that there will often be multiple pages for a large company, so make sure you double- check the details.
Check your privacy settings: anyone can potentially see the content you post on Facebook, including your photos, statuses, and what you have ‘liked’. Allowing third party applications access to your profile also grants the company behind the app access to your information. So keep it professional, monitor your privacy settings, and be careful as many employers will check your social media profiles before they proceed with your application.
Keep your profile up to date and truthful: remember, your details can also be seen on other social networking sites.
Be proactive: network by updating your profile and status to tell people what kind of job role you are seeking. ‘Like’ company Facebook pages and consider involving yourself in online communities by commenting and asking questions.
Find out more
- Facebook Help Centre
- Facebook privacy settings
- Facebook apps for job hunters: this shows you useful apps like BeKnown (the Monster job board app) that are integrated into Facebook yet allow you to keep your personal info private.
Career and Employability Services run workshops and interactive labs throughout the year on getting the most out of social media- see the schedule and reserve your place online.
Twitter
Follow us on twitter @UniBradCareers
Twitter is a social networking site which allows you to post and view messages of up to 280 characters, called tweets, to those you connect with. You don’t have to tweet yourself, as you can just follow to begin with.
How can Twitter help me in my job hunt?
- Twitter is widely used by businesses and potential employers. It is frequently used to advertise opportunities, promote events and competitions, and communicate with potential applicants.
- Twitter can also be a way of simply doing some ‘market research’ about different companies.
How do I use it?
- Create an account
- You can usually follow whoever you like on Twitter without them approving you as a follower. So find, follow and communicate with organisations and professionals in industries you are interested in.
- Post regular, well-informed and professionally appropriate tweets to give a good first impression through social media.
A quick guide to Twitter terminology
Following: this means that you subscribe to other users’ tweets, which will appear in the timeline on your home page.
Tweet: tell people where you are and what you’re doing (if interesting), post photos, video and links.
Retweet(RT): share other users’ tweets with your followers.
Modified Tweet (MT): like a retweet, but used to denote that changes to the original tweet have been made.
@Replies / Mentions: reply to other users’ tweets or mention them by username in your tweet.
Like: bookmark tweets that you liked or that included useful content / links (these are saved on your profile page).
Direct Messages (DM): send private messages to people who follow you.
Twitter Search: use the search bar to find other users, or topics they are tweeting about.
Hashtags: mark relevant keywords with a #. This categorises tweets so that they can more easily be found in Twitter searches. By clicking on a hashtagged word you can see all other tweets in that category.
Lists: you can group other users into a list. When viewed the list shows a stream of the tweets from users included in the group. You don’t need to be following the users to add them to the list, and you can follow lists created by other people.
Moments:News items made up of collated content from Twitter
Twitter Top Tips
- Keep it professional: if you plan to use Twitter for job hunting, use a professional head-and-shoulders photo and find people and organisations in your chosen career area to follow. Think about the content that you post, and its tone. You can set your account to ‘protected’, but you may miss out this way, as others can’t see the good content you’ve posted.
- Tweet and retweet: join conversations, pose questions and retweet interesting professionally-relevant content to display your pro-active interest in the area.
- Communicate: reach out to employers by engaging in discussions as above, but tailor your interactions according to the tone of those you’re replying to. Thank others for posting interesting content and respond to questions as well as posing them. Post links to relevant articles with thoughtful comments to show you’re engaged with your field
Find out more
- Twitter's Help Centre
- The Small Business Guide to Twitter by SimplyBusiness
- 6 ways to use Twitter to your advantage from Creative Bloq
Could I use any other social media platforms for job hunting?
Here are some more types of social media platforms, along with how they could be useful in improving your online visibility:
Types of Media and Their Potential Use for Job Hunting:
- **Video:**
  - Platforms: YouTube and Vimeo are the main video hosting websites. They generally allow the sharing and embedding of videos within other platforms.
  - Job Hunting Use: Promote yourself with a video CV, research organisations, and find job-hunting tips.
- **Photo Sharing:**
  - Platforms: Instagram is a mobile-based photo sharing app. Flickr is an online portfolio/photo album geared towards more professional quality photos. Users can comment and favourite content.
  - Job Hunting Use: Reflect your interests via your photos and build your online presence.
- **Blogs:**
  - Platforms: Tumblr, Blogger, WordPress are blogging platforms. Tumblr is the most social media-friendly as posts are easily shareable and "liked," and users follow others to create a rolling content feed.
  - Job Hunting Use: Create and share articles about your chosen industry. Research other industry bloggers.
- **Others:**
  - Platforms: Pinterest is an online pinboard for collecting interesting content; users can follow other users' boards. Slideshare allows users to upload presentations to the web and share them online. Google+ is similar to Facebook but is not widely used despite its inbuilt Google functions.
  - Job Hunting Use: Collate a job-hunting pinboard, create presentations, and expand your online presence.
Practical help from Careers
If you'd like to discuss social or digital networking and jobseeking with us, please book an appointment online or find us in Student Central.
We also run careers workshops about social media throughout the year including our LinkedIn Labs which offer practical help to improve your profile.
Check out our workshop schedule and reserve your place.

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/health-safety-and-wellbeing-intranet/SitePages/Emergency-Information(2).aspx

Health and Safety
Emergency Information
The following information is for staff, students, visitors and contractors who are on site at the University.
Contacting Security staff
- For Routine Matters: 01274 - 236999 from a mobile or external telephone, or 6999 from an internal telephone.
- For Emergencies: 01274 - 238888 from a mobile or external telephone, or 8888 from an internal telephone.
- Richmond Reception: Mon-Fri 8.30am-5.30pm, 01274 - 234894 from a mobile or external telephone, or 4894 from an internal telephone.
Fire
The fire alarm is a very loud siren in all University buildings, it will sound continuously. Upon hearing the alarm all occupants should lock their workstation (if applicable) and leave via the nearest available exit. this does not necessarily mean the way you entered the building, you should follow the standard evacuation signs depicted by the running man, some may also have a directional arrow.
Bomb Scare
The fire alarm system is used to alert staff of any bomb threat, in these circumstances instead of a continuous siren it is intermittent, upon hearing an intermittent alarm staff must collect their coat, keys, handbags etc. and leave the building. You must not return to your office if you are in another building or in an a different location, in these circumstances you must leave by the nearest available exit with other evacuees.
In both Fire and Bomb situations it is important that people listen to the information that is being given by the Emergency Wardens, these people are identifiable by their yellow high visibility tabbards. Members of the central Health, Safety and Wellbeing team are identifiable by their Orange Jackets, again staff must follow any instructions they are given.
Fire Alarm Testing
Fire alarm testing is carried out throughout the University campus each week.

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/health-safety-and-wellbeing-intranet/SitePages/Raising-a-Health-&-Safety-Concern.aspx

Health and Safety
Raising a Health and Safety Concern
If you have a concern with regards to health and safety on campus please get in touch with us, you can email or call. (healthandsafety@bradford.ac.uk or by calling +44 (0) 1274 236057)
Should you require advice or wish to raise a health and safety concern you should raise your concern using the ServiceNow system "Report Incidents, Accidents & Near Misses". You should also raise your concern within the Faculty/Directorate such as a Line Manager & Personal Academic Tutor.
In the event of serious or imminent danger, you must stop the activity (if safe to do so) and if necessary move to a place of safety. You should report the concern immediately to the Health and Safety Team healthandsafety@bradford.ac.uk or by calling +44 (0) 1274 236057, you must also alert your Line Manager and/or Personal Academic Tutor.
Concerns regarding campus building infrastructure or services should be notified immediately to our Property & Campus Services Team. You should not undertake any modification or repair work to buildings or services without prior approval from the Property & Campus Services Team.
The University Security Team should be notified of any security and/or crime related concerns. Please see the Security pages for further details.

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/health-safety-and-wellbeing-intranet/SitePages/Report-Incidents,-Accidents-&-Near-Misses.aspx

Health and Safety
Report Incidents, Accidents & Near Misses
If you have been involved in an incident, accident or near miss whilst on campus, you must report it to the Health and Safety Team at the earliest opportunity via ServiceNow.
Accidents/Incidents such as the below should be reported (Non exhaustive list):
- Accidents where a person was injured;
- Non-Accidents where First Aid was administered e.g., Fainting;
- Damages to equipment, property, vehicles etc;
- Unsafe acts and conditions;
- Harassment & Verbal abuse;
- Crime Related Incidents;
- Near Misses;
- Mental Health First Aid & Support.
Once our team receive the report, we will investigate the accident/incident and if required, we will make recommendations for additional safety measures to be implemented.
In the event of serious or imminent danger, you must stop the activity (if safe to do so) and if necessary move to a place of safety. Your should report the concern immediately to the Health and Safety Team healthandsafety@bradford.ac.uk or Steve Wiggins on +44 (0) 1274 236057 and notify your Line Manager and/or Personal Academic Tutor.

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/international-student-support-and-ukvi-compliance-intranet

Visa Support Team
About us
The Visa Support Team provides visa support for new and existing students at the University of Bradford and has overall responsibility for all visa issues related to Student Visas and right to study for all International students.
The team's main responsibilities are:
- Issuance of Confirmation of Acceptance for Studies (CAS) to new and existing students
- To provide specialist immigration advice to students and their families
- Working with Faculties to ensure information on attendance monitoring, change of circumstances and visa extension requests is referred in a timely manner
- To provide advice to staff across the University on Student Visas
- To provide immigration regulation training for all staff working with international students
- To provide the link between the University and UK Visas and Immigration (UKVI)
- Facilitation of international student enrolment
- To hold Visa Check-in during March; to ensure students are still meeting their student immigration responsibilities
- To keep records for all students on a Student Visa, making sure that we are ready for a UK Visa & Immigration (UKVI) audit at all times
- To report relevant change of circumstances for students on a Student Visa to the UKVI
- To report eligible students for the Graduate Visa
- Assisting students with their Student Visa application in and out of country
- To provide an arrival, orientation and welcome programme for new international students
- To provide pastoral and welfare care for current international students

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/international-student-support-and-ukvi-compliance-intranet/SitePages/Students.aspx

Visa Support Team
Students
The Visa Support Team are here to assist and support you throughout your studies at the University of Bradford.
Immigration rules are changing all the time and it is important you have the most up-to-date information to allow you to meet the requirements of your Student Visa.
As a current student at the University of Bradford we can advise on the Student Visa rules and responsibilities, ATAS clearance, standard visit visa, work placements, absences during your studies, change of circumstances, extending your visa, graduate post-study work route, and visa check-in.
Contact us
- For Visas and Immigration Queries contact email: visasupport@bradford.ac.uk
- Telephone: +44 (0) 1274 236900.
Daily drop-in sessions
Students can also visit one of our Visa Support Drop In for Visa Advice:
-Monday, Tuesday, Thursday & Friday, 11:00 - 12:00 at the MyBradford desks, Richmond Building

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/it-services-intranet/SitePages/Assistive-and-productivity-software.aspx

IT Services
Assistive and productivity software
Assistive software is available that can aid productivity and help with different kinds of needs.
The software mentioned in the categories below is either licenced by the University for use or is open source and freely available.
Reading and writing, dictation, and text-to-speech
Assistive Software Tools:
- **TextHelp Read & Write:**
  - What it does: Assists with reading or composing text. Reads documents out loud. Text prediction. Screen masking. Summary highlighters.
  - How to access:  
    - Staff: Available to install from the Software Centre (in the Start menu) on staff devices.  
    - Students and staff: Available in the A–Z list of applications within the Horizon service.
- **Editor:**
  - What it does: Checks grammar, spelling, tone, and more.
  - How to access: Select the Editor button on the Home tab in the Microsoft Office application you are using (for example, Outlook or Word).
- **Immersive Reader:**
  - What it does: Shows text in a window where you can have it read aloud or formatted to enhance reading (such as words divided into syllables), color-coded for parts of speech, or with extra spacing between words and lines.
  - How to access: In most Microsoft applications (for example, Word), select the View tab and then select Immersive Reader.  
    See how to enter into Immersive Reader mode in the Edge browser.
- **Read Aloud:**
  - What it does: Reads content aloud to improve reading comprehension by hearing content at your own pace.
  - How to access: In most Microsoft applications, select the Review tab and then select Read Aloud.  
    See how to enter into Read Aloud mode in the Edge browser.
- **Speak (text-to-speech):**
  - What it does: Reads text aloud in Word, Outlook, PowerPoint, and OneNote.
  - How to access: Add the Speak command to your Quick Access Toolbar in Word, Outlook, PowerPoint, and OneNote.
- **Dictate:**
  - What it does: Lets you use your voice to author content in Microsoft Office apps instead of typing.
  - How to access: Access this feature in Word, Outlook, PowerPoint, and OneNote.
- **Narrator (Windows):**
  - What it does: A screen reader app that reads dialog boxes, buttons, user interfaces, and text.
  - How to access: See the complete guide to Narrator.
Transcription and captions
Assistive Transcription Tools:
- **Transcriptions in Teams meetings:**
  - What it does: Live transcription captures everything being said in a Teams meeting, in real time, and includes each speaker's name and timestamp. The transcript file is also available to view in the meeting recap after the meeting has ended.
  - How to access: Enable live transcription in a Teams meeting using the option on the meeting control bar in Teams.
- **Captions in Teams meetings:**
  - What it does: Live captions are displayed in real time as text in the meeting window.
  - How to access: Enable captions in a Teams meeting using the option on the meeting control bar in Teams.
- **Transcribe in Word:**
  - What it does: Converts speech to a text transcript with each speaker individually separated. Parts of a recording can be revisited after the conversation or meeting by playing back the timestamped audio. The transcription can be edited to make corrections. The full transcript can be saved as a Word document or snippets of it can be inserted into existing documents.
  - How to access: You can transcribe speech by recording directly in Word, or by uploading an audio file.
Mind mapping, ideation, note-taking, planning, and organisation
Assistive Productivity Tools:
- **MindGenius:**
  - What it does: Helps to get ideas onto paper and to consider them from different viewpoints. Acts as an alternative to linear thinking and helps with creativity. A more visual way to express your thoughts. Different map layouts are available.
  - How to access:
    - Staff: Available to install from the Software Centre (in the Start menu) on staff devices.
    - Students and staff: Available in the A–Z list of applications within the Horizon service.
    - Learn more: How to guides for MindGenius.
- **Whiteboard:**
  - What it does: Makes it easy to collaborate, brainstorm, plan, and share with others on a digital canvas, all in real time.
  - How to access: Available as part of the Microsoft 365 suite of applications. Also built in and available with every Teams meeting.  
    Learn how to use Whiteboard.
- **OneNote:**
  - What it does: Lets you capture, organize, and share your notes across your devices.
  - How to access: Available as part of the Microsoft 365 suite of applications.  
    Learn how to use OneNote.
- **To Do:**
  - What it does: Enables you to add tasks for yourself, and prioritise and manage them.
  - How to access: Available as part of the Microsoft 365 suite of applications.  
    Learn how to use To Do.
- **Planner:**
  - What it does: Enables a group of people (members of a Microsoft team or an Office 365 Group) to manage tasks within the group.
  - How to access: Available as part of the Microsoft 365 suite of applications.  
    Learn how to use Planner.
- **Collections in Microsoft Edge:**
  - What it does: Helps you keep track of your ideas on the web, whether you're collecting notes for research or lesson plans, or just want to pick up where you left off the last time you were browsing.
  - How to access: The Collections button at the top right of the Edge browser.  
    Learn how to use Collections in Edge.
- **Focus assist:**
  - What it does: Allows you to avoid distracting notifications when you need to stay focused. Helps minimise visual distractions by turning off animations, background images, and more. You can control which icons appear on the taskbar, reduce the number of items in view, select what to show in the Start menu, define which notifications you see and hear, and limit late-night notifications.
  - How to access: On a Windows computer, go to Start → Settings → System → Focus assist.  
    Learn how to use Focus assist.  
    Learn how to make it easier to focus on your tasks (Microsoft).
- **Additional note:**
  - You may also find the recording and transcription features within Microsoft Teams useful for help with note-taking.
Image-to-text conversion
Assistive Scanning Tool:
- **Microsoft Lens:**
  - What it does: Converts pictures of printed text to digital text.
  - How to access:
    - Microsoft Lens for Android.
    - Microsoft Lens for iOS.
Enhance the visibility of content of your screen
Accessibility Features for Visual Assistance:
- **Make Windows easier to see:**
  - What it does: Adjust the size, colour, and contrast of text, apps, and other elements of the screen. Change the size and colour of your mouse pointer. Apply colour filters. Magnify all or part of your screen to see content better.
  - How to access: On a Windows computer, go to Start → Settings → Ease of Access → Display.  
    Learn about how to make Windows easier to see.
Wellbeing
Wellbeing Support Tool:
- **Wellbeing tab in Viva Insights:**
  - What it does: Block out time to focus. Catch up on messages, learn, and take breaks. Mindfully close out your workday. Silence messages and emails during your off-hours. Do a guided meditation. Reflect on how you're feeling.
  - How to access: Available as part of the Microsoft 365 suite of applications.  
    Learn how to use the Wellbeing tab in Viva Insights.

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/peer-assisted-learning-intranet/SitePages/Peer-Assisted-Learning-Scheme-(PAL)-Overview.aspx

Peer Assisted Learning (PAL)
Peer Assisted Learning Scheme (PAL) Overview
Overview
PAL Leader recruitment for 24/25 will open soon. Get in touch with the pal team if you are interested or have any questions.
Peer Assisted Learning (PAL) at Bradford aims to support the student learning experience by utilising and enabling peer interaction and support.
Schemes are based on good practice from the HE sector, can be tailored to suit particular groups of students and are coordinated centrally by the Student Experience and Success Team (SEST) in partnership with programme teams.
PAL involves students in higher levels (e.g. second or third years) volunteering as our PAL Leaders to facilitate regular small group learning and support sessions with new students, which are timetabled within programmes of study.
PAL at Bradford has two central aims, these are to support:
1. New student transition into and engagement with university and study life
2. The employability and development of students that lead the peer support
It also strives to develop a sense of community and belonging for students in their programme/department, enabling inter-level interaction and an environment in which peer to peer learning can take place.
A crucial principle underpinning the scheme is that it is student centred and determined. Students decide what to cover in sessions and these are facilitated by the student PAL Leaders. Sessions are co-participatory and involve group and social learning/support. They can focus on academic aspects such as programme content and study skills and/or can offer social interaction and support. PAL therefore offers a unique learning environment in that it is personalised and gives students an informal space, led by them, to work through materials, ideas and questions together.
In 2012/13 a Peer Assisted Learning (PAL) scheme was piloted by SEST and the Department of Computing. The project was funded by the National HE STEM Programme. Since then, progress has been really positive and each year more schemes have been established.
For 2023/24 we have schemes running across all 4 faculties. It's great to see so many students volunteering to make a difference and staff support from the programmes has been essential in establishing and developing these schemes.
It is hoped that PAL will continue to grow so that even more students will have the opportunity to engage in peer support.
The Student Experience & Success Team manage all PAL activity in partnership with programme teams.

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/peer-assisted-learning-intranet/SitePages/PAL-for-Students.aspx

Peer Assisted Learning (PAL)
PAL for Students
New students
An important part of your student experience is working with and learning from your peers. Many departments at the University run a Peer Assisted Learning (PAL) scheme. These aim to support your transition into and engagement with university and study life as well as d evelop a sense of community and belonging.
PAL involves students in higher levels (usually their second or third year) – our PAL Leaders – facilitating group learning and support sessions with new students, which are timetabled within programmes of study. Students are encouraged and supported to take ownership of PAL and so work together to decide what to cover in the sessions. This approach offers a unique learning environment in that it is personalised and gives students informal opportunities, led by them, to work through needs, ideas and questions together.
PAL therefore offers a friendly and informal space to can also help students to:
- Share and learn from experiences
- Strengthen understanding of programme and university related knowledge
- Develop transferable skills and attributes such as group working and confidence
What happens in PAL sessions?
PAL Leaders plan for and run PAL sessions based on their experiences as a new student and on the needs and suggestions of their group. So you set the agenda for sessions and it is your student only time and space to work with and learn from others.
Your PAL Leaders are not there to teach you or give you the answers to all your questions. They are there to facilitate new students to search for their own solutions together as a group. Students have used PAL sessions to cover a very wide range of areas, these include:
- Referencing
- Note taking
- Essay writing
- Library and finding resources (journals etc.)
- Using CANVAS
- Understanding key course concepts and skills (e.g. java programming, pharmacy calculations, accounting, SPSS etc)
- Time management
- Group work
- Presentation skills and practising presentations
- Pebblepad
- Reflections/ reflective writing
- Preparing for assessments and exam techniques
- Understanding marks and feedback
- Support with project work
- Providing peer feedback
- Placement & careers
- Extra curricular activity
Does my programme have PAL?
Find out if your programme has a PAL scheme. You can suggest setting a new PAL scheme up if your programme is yet to develop one by contacting the pal team.
PAL Leaders
Being a PAL Leader is a great opportunity to help others whilst gaining experience and developing your skills too. Being a PAL Leader can offer the following benefits:
- A great way to add to your CV and provide concrete examples to help you to stand out from others
- Transferable skills and personal development (e.g. communication, teamwork, facilitation, problem solving & leadership)
- Consolidation of your course knowledge by revisiting core ideas and skills
- Opportunity to share your experiences as a student with others
- Enjoyable and rewarding experience – the chance to make a difference!
- Certification and HEAR acknowledgement
Each year we also fund a number of PAL Leaders to attend the National PASS/PAL Conference.
In addition, we recognise PAL Leaders and schemes as part of the Student Leaders Awards each year. We have awards for the 'PAL Leader of the Year', 'PAL Partnership of the Year' and also 'PAL Scheme of the Year'.
Want to be a PAL Leader?
If your programme runs a PAL scheme and you're interested in becoming a PAL Leader, please email the pal team.

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/peer-assisted-learning-intranet/SitePages/Benefits-of-PAL.aspx

Peer Assisted Learning (PAL)
Benefits of and recognition for PAL
PAL has numerous potential benefits: for new students, PAL Leaders and to staff or a department.
Evidence
Growing evidence from the HE sector demonstrates the value of academic peer learning. For example those involved in PAL can show greater engagement, improved grades and better retention (Keenan 2014). This has been reinforced by a recent (2024) collaborative report on student-led peer learning and support that the University of Bradford was part of the report team for.
At Bradford our own evaluations have highlighted how students value the opportunity to learn from the experiences of peers and how PAL has supported:
- Support with transition
- Engagement with studies
- Support for learning, course and study skills
- Sense of belonging
- Employability and future focus
- Developing confidence
More broadly, students who are engaged and have a greater sense of belonging are more likely to stay on their course and to achieve success (Foster et al. 2011 and Thomas 2012).
Recognition for PAL
Winner of the 'Vice-Chancellors Teaching Excellence Award ' 2015 for PAL (now Bradford Teaching Fellow).
Noted in 2014 QAA Higher Education Review of the University of Bradford.
PAL Scheme Manager is a member of the International Association for Peer Learning and Support' Steering Group..
PAL Leader role a recognised Bradford Employability Award for the HEAR.
PAL specifically noted in the University’s TEF Silver award 2017 Statement of Findings.

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/peer-assisted-learning-intranet/SitePages/Running-and-Set-up-of-a-PAL-Scheme.aspx

Setting up a new PAL scheme
Schemes are open to programmes at foundation, undergraduate or postgraduate level and are managed centrally by SEST, in partnership with programme staff.Schemes follow a central and institution wide model that also allows the team to design an approach to best suit a particular programme. SEST recruit and train PAL Leaders, supporting them and staff throughout the schemes.
New schemes usually need to be requested by the end of February for a September start but we may be able to offer alternative timings.
If you are a student or staff member who would be interested in developing a PAL scheme in your programme or Faculty, then please email the pal team.

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/it-services-intranet/SitePages/it-services-ticket-escalation-process.aspx

IT Services
IT Services ticket escalation procedure
The following is the best route to escalate an open ticket that you have logged with IT Services. This should only be used in cases where you feel that a ticket is not being given appropriate attention, and where the impact on the University or on an individual is high.
- When should a ticket escalation be initiated?
- When you've had no response to (or any update) on an open ticket, and where the impact on the University or on an individual is high.
- When there is adverse impact to your day-to-day activities.
When you are extremely dissatisfied and would like IT Services management contact.
Escalation requests will have a designated owner, and you'll be kept informed of the progression and resolution plan throughout, until the ticket is resolved.
How to escalate a ticket
Please remember to have the ticket number to hand.
Escalation Contact Levels:
- **Level 1:**
  - Who to contact: IT Servicedesk
  - How: Call 01274 233333
- **Level 2:**
  - Who to contact: IT Servicedesk Team Leaders
  - How: Call 01274 233333 and ask to speak to a Team Leader
- **Level 3 (after 8 hours):**
  - Who to contact: Cath Riddiough (Service Desk Manager)
  - How: Call 01274 234886, or email c.riddiough@bradford.ac.uk
- **Level 4 (after 12 hours):**
  - Who to contact: Russ Hind (Head of Service Delivery)
  - How: Call 01274 233316, or email r.hind@bradford.ac.uk
- **Level 5 (after 48 hours):**
  - Who to contact:
    - Juliette Atkinson (IT Director): Call 01274 232177, or email j.atkinson7@bradford.ac.uk
    - Angie Beswick (Associate IT Director): Call 01274 233136, or email a.beswick@bradford.ac.uk

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/research-students-intranet/SitePages/PGR-Record-Management-in.aspx

Postgraduate Researchers
PGR Record Management in e:Vision
Record management in e:Vision provides greater oversight of research degree milestones, including progression, submission, and supervisor meeting records. You will now receive frequent email reminders for upcoming milestones.
Monthly supervisor meeting forms must now be completed in e:Vision, at the end of the supervision meeting. This supervision record provides an indicator of engagement throughout the research degree and it is imperative that it is submitted monthly (every other month for part-time PGRs).
We hope you find the PGR record in e:Vision user-friendly, but we want to help you navigate the look and feel. There are handy videos for quick reference and written guides if you want more detailed information.
If you don't immediately see the Research Management tab in e:Vision, launch a new browser, and clear your cookies and cache (and select “all time”).
Additionally, the PGR Administration Team are available for e:Vision drop-in queries between 14:00 -15:00 Monday to Friday. Please bring your device with you to show us your issue and we'll help guide you through.
Urgent issues with e:Vision that are not addressed by the guidance, or resolved in a drop-in session, should be logged with the IT Service desk.
PGR e:Vision Resources
You will see an overview of your research record when you click on the Research Management tab when logged into e:Vision.
To see greater detail, or complete any actions in e:Vision, click the blue “Student Management” button.Editing events in e:Vision
If you are unable to locate the “edit” button when you log in to e:Vision. Please use the navigation arrows at the top right of the events table:
This will then display any hidden columns and you will be able to access editable events by clicking the “edit” button. The “edit” button is located under the Action column.
Supervisor e:Vision Resources
You will see an overview of your supervisees research records when you click on the Research Management tab when logged into e:Vision.
To see greater detail, or complete any actions in e:Vision, click the blue “Student Management” button.
Editing events in e:Vision
If you are unable to locate the “edit” button when you log in to e:Vision. Please use the navigation arrows at the top right of the events table:
This will then display any hidden columns and you will be able to access editable events by clicking the “edit” button. The “edit” button is located under the Action column.
Contact the PGRA Team
You can contact your Faculty Postgraduate Research Administrator on the contact details below or call into the team office (E61 Richmond) to see us, Monday to Friday 08:30 - 16:30:
- **Faculty of Management, Law and Social Sciences:**  
  - Email: fomlss-pgr@bradford.ac.uk  
  - Phone: 01274 233405
- **Faculty of Health Studies:**  
  - Email: fohs-pgr@bradford.ac.uk  
  - Phone: 01274 232925
- **Faculty of Life Sciences:**  
  - Email: fols-pgr@bradford.ac.uk  
  - Phone: 01274 232157
- **Faculty of Engineering and Digital Technologies:**  
  - Email: foedt-pgr@bradford.ac.uk  
  - Phone: 01274 232908

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/registry-and-student-admin-intranet/SitePages/Awards-Team.aspx

Registry and Student Administration
Awards Team
We support the production of student documentation.
This includes:
- replacement of degree and award certificates
- certified certificates
- transcripts
- verifications pre 2003
- award letters
- posting uncollected certificates to students
-  process award and progression decisions
p- roviding graduates with relevant documentation which may be required for job applications and visa purposes
Please note, we do not release certificates and transcript until students have cleared their debt status.
Contact us
- Email: awards@bradford.ac.uk
- Phone: +44 (0) 1274 233002
Frequently asked questions
I need a certificate and copy of my transcript?
If you need to place an order for your transcript, or need a replacement certificate or certified copies of your certificates, visit our online store.
Once you've placed your order, please email a copy of your photo identification (for example, passport or driving licence) to awards@bradford.ac.uk.
What is a transcript?
A transcript is an academic record containing a statement of your learning and records achieved from your studies.
The transcript will contain the marks and grades achieved from each of the modules you have studied, as well as the credit value.
A transcript is provided to every graduate from the University which may be required for visa or job application purposes.
How can I access my transcript?
If you graduated after 2007 and need to share your transcript, sign in to Gradintel. If you have never signed into Gradintel before, or you can't sign, in please email the Awards Team.
If you graduated after 2007 and need a signed and stamped copy of your transcript, please order this through the online store.

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/opportunities-abroad-intranet/SitePages/Funding-Amounts.aspx

Opportunities Abroad
Funding
Funding is available for all of our international opportunities listed on this site. You will have to apply for funding through the International Opportunities Team at studyabroad@bradford.ac.uk.
Payment of the grant will be explained in your grant agreement.
Your grant agreement may contain certain conditions including agreeing to share a testimony of your experience or having a monthly check-in with your personal tutor.
Short Programs
In-person
We will calculate the distance for you, but you can use a tool to see the distance between your host organisation and Bradford.
Distance-Based Travel Reimbursement Rates:
- **Anytime in-person:**  
  - £0.00
- **Between 100 and 499KM:**  
  - £65.00
- **Between 500 and 1499KM:**  
  - £115.00
- **Between 1500 and 2499KM:**  
  - £165.00
- **Between 2500 and 3499KM:**  
  - £215.00
- **Between 3500 and 4499KM:**  
  - £265.00
- **Between 4500 and 5499KM:**  
  - £315.00
- **Between 5500 and 6499KM:**  
  - £365.00
- **Between 6500 and 7499KM:**  
  - £415.00
- **Between 7500 and 8499KM:**  
  - £465.00
- **Between 8500 and 9499KM:**  
  - £515.00
- **Between 9500KM or more:**  
  - £665.00

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/opportunities-abroad-intranet/SitePages/Departmental-Exchange-Co-Ordinators.aspx

Opportunities Abroad
Departmental Exchange Coordinators
Every Faculty at the University of Bradford has a number of Departmental Exchange Coordinators. The Departmental Exchange Coordinator is the academic lead for Opportunities Abroad and they are the main person that you will need to speak to regarding any of our Opportunities. They will not only sign your application forms but will also provide an academic understanding of modules if you are choosing an Erasmus+, Worldwide Exchange, or ISEP programme.
Faculty of Engineering and Informatics
- Computer Science - Daniel Neagu
- Media, Design, and Technology - Fin Caton-Rose
- School of Engineering - Alastair Wood
Faculty of Health Studies
- Nursing - Jillian Hendron & Victoria Whaley
- Midwifery - Sarah Flower
- Paramedics - Andrew Williams
- Physiotherapy - Priya Anand
- Radiography - Edward Cadogan
Faculty of Life Sciences
- Archaeological Sciences - Jill Thompson
- Pharmacy - Richard T Wheelhouse
- Biomedical Sciences & Chemistry - Maria Katsikogianni
Faculty of Management, Law and Social Sciences
- International Relations, Peace Studies, and Political Sciences - Maria Ambrozy, Lorna Campbell
- Law - Ajay Kumar
- Management - Theresa Onaji-Benson / Kerry Papps (PG)
- Psychology - Ria Vaportzis (outbound) / Nazanin Shiraj (inbound)
- Sociology - Nabeela Khan
Any Questions?
Come and have a chat to see how we can help you!
Individual appointments are also available.
- Email us: studyabroad@bradford.ac.uk
- Book through My Career and Employability Centre
Location: Career and Employability Services (Student Central, Level 0)

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/opportunities-abroad-intranet/SitePages/Short-Term-Travel-Awards.aspx

Opportunities Abroad
Short International Programmes
Short International Programmes are a fantastic way to engage with international opportunities without committing to a full semester or year abroad. These last anywhere from 1-7 weeks and can provide you with many of the benefits of a longer experience. There is a huge amount of diversity in destinations and activities you can part in to develop your academic, employability or intercultural skills. These programmes cover a wide range of disciplines and subjects and are open to undergraduate and postgraduate students. You will need to apply for each one individually.
Previous short International Programmes have included the Study in China Programme, Nanjing Youth Programme, various Summer Schools around the world or completing an Elective with Work the World.
General Short International Programmes Guidelines
- For how long? Generally 4 weeks
- Who can apply? All students, including PG (home, EU or International)
- Where can I go? Any country in the world
- What can I do? Summer Schools; Electives; Short Internships, Cultural & Language Programs
- Can I get funding? Yes, the Turing Scheme can provide funding.
*The Short-Term Travel Award is intended to contribute to the international flight cost of the academic/work-related activities undertaken by the student. Please see the Short Term Travel Application Form in the documentation section for more information.
How to Apply
1. Confirm with your department that you are eligible for a Short International Programme and when you are allowed to go.
2. Meet with the International Opportunities Team to discuss where you can go and which programmes are available. If you are thinking of applying for a Summer School or Elective then research appropriately. If you need help with creating or updating your CV and Cover Letter then book an appointment through Handshake Career Centre.
3. Apply using the Short Term Travel Awards Application Form.
4. Discuss your Short Term Travel Programme with your Departmental Exchange Coordinator. Please make sure that they have signed your application form, we cannot accept unsigned forms.
5. Email the Application Form to studyabroad@bradford.ac.uk
Summer Schools
Summer Schools often take place at universities or companies worldwide during the summer. They cover a broad range of subjects that are applicable to many of our students' degree programme. We have compiled a list of Summer Schools available to you which you can find at the bottom of this page - please note that this list is not exhaustive and you can find more opportunities on the Summer Schools in Europe website. You can also contact any of our Erasmus+ Partner Universities to enquire about their Summer School programmes.
What are students say about Summer Schools:
"The programme was very tailored well. I had the chance to develop my theoretical understanding, but at the same time I attended company visits and I debated with CSR directors and managers of large companies like Hugo Boss or Bosch about the challenges of this area."
-Bianca Drotleff, BSc International Business and Management, Hamburg School of Administration, Summer 2018.
Electives (Faculty of Health only)
Final Year Nursing or Midwifery Students can choose to complete their elective abroad by working in a hospital for three weeks through Work the World or another provider. Our students have completed their electives in Tanzania, Ghana and Nepal to name just a few countries. Health Students who are interested in this Opportunity Abroad should firstly contact the Departmental Exchange Co-ordinator for more information.
What our students say about Electives Abroad "My greatest achievement during my placement in Nepal was feeling like I made the labouring women’s experiences better than would have been. Being able to hold their hand and rub their back through contractions made me feel like I was making such a positive difference. The experience was life changing both on a personal and professional level."
-Victoria Hands, BSc Midwifery Studies, Summer 2018.
Any Questions?
Come and have a chat to see how we can help you.
Location: Career and Employability Services (Student Central, Level 0)
Individual Appointments are also available
- Email us studyabroad@bradford.ac.uk
- Book through Handshake Career Centre.

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/opportunities-abroad-intranet/SitePages/Study-Abroad.aspx

Opportunities Abroad
Study Abroad
Studying abroad is the most well-known of the international opportunities available to students at Bradford. It typically encompasses full-year exchanges with one of our partner universities.
If you choose a semester abroad, you will pay fees as normal to the University of Bradford. There are no additional charges.
If you choose a full year abroad, you will pay a significantly reduced tuition fee for that additional year
There are two different schemes through which you can study abroad, both with their own destinations, application process and funding levels. These are explained below:
Who can apply for study abroad?
- Full Year: 2nd-year students (UG only)
- Single Semester: 1st-year students (Management UG only)
- Work Placement SEM1 / Study Abroad SEM2: Available on request, please book an appointment to speak with us about this possibility.
- Programmes: Check to see if you can study abroad using our list.
When does it happen?
- Full Year: Sandwich (additional) year between your 2nd and 3rd years at Bradford (or between your 3rd and 4th years in a 4-year programme).
- Single Semester: The 2nd semester of your 2nd year. This requires module matching/mapping. (Management courses only)
Option 1: Turing Scheme (via ISEP Network)
Turing Scheme and The ISEP Network
The Turing Scheme is the UK Government's new global programme to work and study abroad. It will soon replace the ERASMUS programme above after 2023. For the time being, both options are available to our students.
The funding from the Turing Scheme will be administered to those applying through the ISEP Network; a varied group of different universities across the globe which allow student mobility between one another.
This option is the most popular for Bradford students as accommodation and food are all arranged for you. This means that you can study and enjoy your experience without sweating the small things.
General Turing Scheme/ISEP Guidelines
- For how long?: Full Academic Year (1 semester option for management).
- Who can apply?: 1st and 2nd-year students (UG only)
- What can I do?: Study relevant modules to your degree and outside of it.
- Can I get funding?: See funding page
How to Apply
1. Confirm with your tutor that you can Study Abroad.
2. Meet with the International Opportunities Team to discuss where you can go and which programmes are available, then research your options online.
3. You should then complete the Study Abroad Application Form.
4. Discuss your module selection with your Departmental Coordinator.
5. We will look over applications every month and be in contact regarding the next steps.
Option 2: Worldwide Exchanges
Our current Worldwide Exchange partner institutions include universities from Australia, Canada, Asia, Europe and the USA.
General Worldwide Exchange Guidelines
- For how long? Full Academic Year (1 semester option for management)
- Who can apply? 1st and 2nd-year students (UG only)
- Where can I go? Australia, Canada, Asia, and the USA. 
- What can I do? Study relevant modules to your degree course.
- Can I get funding? See funding page
How to Apply
1. Confirm with your tutor that you can Study Abroad.
2. Meet with the International Opportunities Team to discuss where you can go and which programmes are available, then research your options online.
3. You should then complete the Study Abroad Application Form.
4. Discuss your module selection with your Departmental Coordinator.
5. We will look over applications every month and be in contact regarding the next steps.
Any Questions?
Come and have a chat to see how we can help you.
Location: Career and Employability Services (Student Central, Level 0)
Individual Appointments are available.
- Email us studyabroad@bradford.ac.uk
- Book through Handshake Career Centre

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/opportunities-abroad-intranet/SitePages/Work.aspx

Opportunities Abroad
Working Abroad (Internships and Placements)
Working abroad through internships and placements is a fantastic way to engage with international experiences while also boosting your employability skills. Any student on any course and at any level can take part and receive funding for a placement over their summer break or directly after graduation
The International Opportunities department is not responsible for finding you a placement abroad, athough we will show you where to find them. Once you have found a suitable position we will support you through the travel and funding process.
There are a number of different schemes through which you can acquire funding for your placement, these tend to depend on the country the placement is in and whether it is an in-person or virtual opportunity.
It can be difficult to secure a position abroad without existing connections due to VISA complications.
We can also offer split sandwich years between a UK-based Placement semester and Study Abroad semester.
Who can take part
Anybody All students no matter their programme or level is eligible for funding if they find a suitable placement.
When does it happen?
- Summer break
- After graduation
- Sandwich Year
- Can be anywhere from 2-12 months
Where can I go?
Anywhere! With all of our funding schemes, every country outside the UK has grant coverage.
If you're an international student, you can even get funding to work in your home country.
Where can I find Internships and Placements?
- **Erasmus Intern:**  
  - While Erasmus+ Intern is normally for opportunities in the EU, there are often a few overseas options advertised. Erasmus+ Intern allows you to tailor the searches on this website by academic field and whether the placement is paid or unpaid.
- **Goinglobal:**  
  - Goinglobal is a great place to find opportunities from a huge variety of countries across the globe. You can search for specific nations, career areas, and online vs remote. Make sure you use the provided University of Bradford link for off-campus access.
- **Handshake:**  
  - The University of Bradford's student job portal has many different work placements and internships with major global companies. You will need to activate your account to view the opportunities.
- **Placement Slovakia:**  
  - This site looks specifically at placements in Slovakia. All placements listed here include food and accommodation. Slovakia is also a very affordable country to live and work in.
- **Anywhere else:**  
  - You do not have to find internships through these sites. If you have contacts in other companies abroad through family, friends, or previous employment, you are still eligible for funding.
How much funding can I get?
You can see full details on our funding page
The Schemes
Overseas Placements
Any country in the world
Turing Scheme
Specific countries and placements available
Speak with your department exchange coordinator
How to Apply
1. Talk to your Departmental Exchange Coordinator to secure support.
2. Search for your placement. See the Opportunities Abroad Home Page for live opportunities, plus visit the recommended websites above.
3. Arrange an appointment with Career and Employability Services for CV and covering letter support. You can arrange an appointment through Handshake Career Centre.
4. Book a one-to-one appointment with the International Opportunities Team through Handshake Career Centre.
5. Once you have the acceptance letter from a host organisation, you can speak to us at studyabroad@bradford.ac.uk and we can help you through the grant process.
Important Additional Information about Overseas Placements
Visas and Working Worldwide
- Permanent EU Residents: If you are applying for an Overseas Placement then please be aware that the country that you are choosing to work in will require you to apply for a Visa before entering.
- Non-EU Residents: If you are applying for an Overseas Placement then please be aware that the country that you are choosing to work in will require you to apply for a Visa before entering.
Part of your application will involve applying for the appropriate Visa. It is your responsibility to apply for the appropriate visa before you travel to the Host Organisation.
Any Questions?
Come and have a chat to see how we can help you.
Location: Career and Employability Services (Student Central, Level 0)
Individual appointments are also available:
- Email us: studyabroad@bradford.ac.uk
- Book through Handshake Career Centre.

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/opportunities-abroad-intranet/SitePages/​​​​​​​International-Opportunities-2023-24.aspx

Opportunities Abroad
International Opportunities 2024/25
426 Turing Grants Available:
First Call for Student Applications
The University of Bradford has been awarded TBC grants, with an individual grant average of £1,500 (actual amounts are based on the duration of the placement and the host country), from the Turing Scheme.
The grants will financially assisT UB students to undertake overseas placements, but are not designed to cover all expenses overseas.
Under the First Call, we will accept applications from the 18th of September 2024 until the 28th of February 2025.
Submitted applications will be selected monthly and we reserve the right to close the Call before the deadline if all places have been filled. Interested students are advised to apply yearly.
Where do I start?
Before applying, you might consider booking an appointment with the International Opportunities Team to ensure you apply for the right opportunity.
Book an appointment through Handshake https://app.joinhandshake.co.uk/edu/appointments/new 
Northern Consortium Funding: 2-Week Social Work and Faculty of Health Placements
The Northern Consortium/UoB funding helps students from certain groups undertake 2-week electives that fit better into their lives.
If you are
- Receiving Universal Credit or income-related benefits.
- Caring Responsibility (Children, family members etc.)
- Care leavers / Care-experienced
You can apply today for a grant that will cover all of your expenses for the placement abroad with grants averaging £2025 to £3225 depending on location.
100 Scholarships: 2025/2026 Study Abroad & Placement Year Abroad
ISEP - International Exchange Programme, Worldwide Exchanges, ERASMUS+
What are my options?
There are lots of opportunities to go abroad. You can study, work or do a short international programme in more than 150 countries across the world.
Study
Study options for the full year include Erasmus+ in and out of the EU, plus ISEP and Worldwide Exchange in countries including the USA, Australia, Japan and the UAE.
Funding is available for flights, accommodation and living expenses.
Work
Work a full year, over summer or for up to a year after graduation in the EU, through Erasmus+, or outside of the EU with Overseas Placements.
Funded research placements for undergraduates and postgraduates are also available.
Grants and scholarships are available for flights, accommodation and living expenses.
Short Programmes
Go abroad for 1-7 weeks to take part in a summer school, elective placement or other short international programme in countries such as China, Tanzania and Germany.
Short Term Travel Awards of up to £1330 are available.
Please arrange your appointment with the International Opportunities Team via email or by booking on Handshake Career Centre.
For general queries please contact studyabroad@bradford.ac.uk and for specific advice or information from one of the team please see below for our contact details:
- Carlos Santos e Sousa International Opportunities and Exchange Partnerships Manager tel: +44(0)1274234787 email: c.santosesousa@bradford.ac.uk
- Harry Nevard International Opportunities Advisor tel: +44(0)1274238571 email: h.nevard@bradford.ac.uk
- Lucy Allison International Opportunities Administrator tel: +44(0)1274232440 email: l.allison2@bradford.ac.uk

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/opportunities-abroad-intranet/SitePages/Erasmus-Plus-FoEI-FoHS.aspx

Opportunities Abroad
Erasmus+ Partner Institutions: Faculty of Engineering and Informatics and Faculty of Health Sciences
Below you will find a list of Erasmus+ Partner Institutions for the Faculty of Engineering and Informatics and for the Faculty of Health Studies. If you are thinking about an Erasmus+ Exchange at one of these Institutions then you will need to look at their module selection, term dates and any other important information associated to their application. Furthermore if you are thinking about an Erasmus+ Work Placement/ Internship over the summer you could also contact a Partner University to enquire about any research opportunities within their faculty. The lists are alphabetized depending the departments within the faculty, your level of study and the EU country.
Faculty of Engineering and Informatics
Computer Science
Name of E+ University
Level of Study
- Johannes Kepler University Linz, Austria: UG AND PG
- ESIGETEL, France: UG AND PG
- Universität Kassel, Germany: UG AND PG
- Universidad Politécnica de Madrid, Spain: UG AND PG
- Universitat Politecnica de Valencia, Spain: UG AND PGR
- Umea University, Sweden: UG AND PGR
- Budapest University of Technology and Economics, Hungary: UG ONLY
- Universita degli Studi di Genova, Italy: PhD Only
Media, Design and Technology
Name of E+ University
Level of Study
- University of Groningen, The Netherlands: UG AND PGR
- Haute Ecole Galilée - IHECS, Belgium: UG ONLY
- Universität Bayreuth, Germany: UG ONLY
School of Engineering
Name of E+ University
Level of Study
- ESIGETEL, France: UG AND PG
- Hochschule Ulm (Ulm University of Applied Sciences), Germany: UG AND PG
- National Technical University of Athens, Greece: UG AND PG
- University of West Attica, Greece: UG AND PG
- Universitatea Tehnica Din Cluj-Napoca, Romania: UG AND PGR
- Umea University, Sweden: UG AND PGR
- Hochschule München (Munich University of Applied Sciences), Germany: UG ONLY
- Alexander Technological Education Institution of Thessaloniki, Greece: UG ONLY
- Politechnika Slaska (Silesian University of Technology), Poland: UG ONLY
- Universidad Carlos III de Madrid, Spain: UG ONLY
- Turku University of Applied Sciences, Finland: PG ONLY
- Universita di Bologna, Italy: PG ONLY
- Ecole Nationale des Travaux Publics de l'Etat, France: PGR ONLY
- Tomas Bata University in Zlín, Czech Republic: PGR ONLY
- University of Antwerp, Belgium: PGR ONLY
- Hochschule Mittweida (Mittweida University of Applied Sciences), Germany: PGR ONLY
- Politecnico di Milano, Italy: PGT AND PGR
- Universita degli Studi di Perugia, Italy: PGT AND PGR
Faculty of Health Studies
Nursing and Midwifery
Name of E+ University
Level of Study
- Savonia University of Applied Sciences (Iisalmi and Kuopio), Finland: UG ONLY
Any Questions?
Come and have a chat to see how we can help you!
Our Opportunities Abroad drop-in sessions are held in Term-Time: 1-2pm every weekday.
Location: Career and Employability Services (Student Central, Level 0)
Individual Appointments are also available.
- Email us: studyabroad@bradford.ac.uk
- Book through My Careers and Employability Centre

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/health-safety-and-wellbeing-intranet/SitePages/Health-%26-Safety-Procedures.aspx

Health and Safety
Health and Safety Procedures
To support you further, our Health and Safety team have produced several procedure documents. These documents provide you with a step-by-step process to follow when completing a variety of activities within University premises
Each procedural document takes into consideration the legal and legislative requirement alongside the practicalities of real time on campus activities. The procedural documents also provide further advice about how to implement and adhere to the requirements of the University policies guidance.
Our Health and Safety documents are continuously evolving, as a result some policies also may incorporate procedures , we therefore we recommend you check both our policies and procedures pages for information.

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/health-safety-and-wellbeing-intranet/SitePages/Policies.aspx

Health and Safety
Health and Safety Policies
In accordance with UK Health and Safety legislation the University must make and have suitable arrangements for managing Health and Safety.
As part of this process the Health and Safety team have produced several policies which aim to prevent, minimise and control risk within University premises and its associated activities.
Each policy takes into consideration the legal and legislative requirements alongside the practicalities of real time on campus activities. Before publishing our policies they are robustly reviewed by a number of sources which include our appointed Trade Union Representatives.
Our policies are continuously evolving, as a result some may incorporate procedures alongside the policy, we therefore we recommend you check both our policies and procedures pages for information.

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/research-students-intranet/SitePages/Frequently-asked-questions.aspx

Postgraduate Researchers
Frequently Asked Questions
When can I enrol for my Postgraduate Research Degree?
We welcome applications for post graduate degrees all year round and have October, February and June cohorts.
Can I request an invoice for tuition fees in advance?
Yes, you can request a pro-forma invoice, please email your request to sas-fees@bradford.ac.uk
How is the studentship set up?
If you are a new student you will need to complete the following procedure before you receive any studentship payment:
- Complete your enrolment at the University
- Provide bank details to the Postgraduate Research Administration Office in the PGR Lounge, Carlton Building using the form provided to you via email
The Postgraduate Research Administration Team will provide you with a bank details form to complete and prepare a letter to confirm your studentship. Once we have received your bank details and you have enroled, we will be able to send payment details to our finance team who will set up and process your payments.
When and where will I be paid my studentship?
Payment is normally made direct to your bank account on the 6th of each month (or on the first working day after the 6th if this falls on a weekend or bank holiday).
I haven't received my monthly studentship...
If you have not received a studentship payment you are expecting, please e-mail your PG Research Administrator and they will look into it. Contact details are on the Home page of this site.
Why, in e-Vision, do I appear to be in Year 2 when I am now in Year 3 or higher?
The Year in e-vision does not correspond to the year of study. A student has a ‘Year 3’ when they have submitted.
What do you look for when appointing an examining team?
The main things that the University looks for when appointing your examining team are experience and externality. Thorough checks are carried out to ensure that the team has the correct knowledge, experience and externality. For example, an examiner that has published with the student in question would not be approved. Faculties are encouraged to provide supporting documentation for unconventional applications; however, we must continue to protect and uphold the University’s integrity and reputation.
Where can I submit my thesis?
Thesis submissions are made electronically.
When you are ready to submit your thesis, please contact your Faculty PGR inbox for more detail.
They will be able to provide you with guidance of how to submit your thesis via CANVAS and open a submission box for this purpose.
How and when can I pay my tuition fees?
You can pay your fees in full before or at enrolment, if you would like to pay in person you can do so by visiting Payzone who are located in the Richmond Building on campus. Should paying in person not be a viable option, you can pay online or over the telephone (cardholder only) +44 (0) 300 023 0503.
If you are paying a tuition fee of more than £500.00, you can pay in instalments.
Do I have to attend inductions?
Yes, the faculty and University induction sessions are a requirement for all new postgraduate research students across the University, whether part time or full time (induction is not compulsory for students who are studying extramural)
How do I access the Postgraduate Research Lounge (PGR Lounge)?
In order to access the PGR Lounge you must be a current, enrolled, PGR student. If you are experiencing access issues, please contact your faculty administrator and we will endeavour to assist you.
Who can help me access my office / lab / workshop?
Access to Faculty areas is granted by the Faculty via your supervisor. Once you have met with your supervisor, they will be able to contact access control to request the relevant access rights.
Where can I get help about open access?
For detail regarding open access visit the Library website.
Do I have to complete annual progress report?
Yes, this is an essential part of your research journey and provides a good indication of your progress. Continuation of your research is subject to satisfactory completion of progress reporting.
Why have I been charged another writing-up fee?
The writing-up fee is charged on an annual basis to both full-time and part-time students and covers use of the University facilities (access to the Library is granted until the viva date upon request and access to email continues until 90 days after Graduation).
The amount per year is minimal so is not reduced pro rata when a student submits their thesis during the academic year nor when a student suspends their registration during the writing-up period.
Why have I been charged a full tuition fee when I have been registered for long enough to pay the writing-up fee?
Transfer to writing-up has not yet been confirmed by your Faculty. Please speak to your supervisor in the first instance
What is a re-submission fee?
If the outcome of your viva examination was to 'revise and represent', you will be required to pay a re-submission fee. This fee covers the re-examination and administrative costs of re-submission, you will be notified in writing the re-submission fee, however, details can be found on the tuition fees section of the website.
How much will my tuition fees be next year?
See details of the next academic year's fees. Should you be unable to find the information that you require please contact the sas-fees@bradford.ac.uk for further assistance on your fee related query.
I have submitted my thesis and I am a full-time student; can my Council Tax exemption continue while waiting for my viva?
Council Tax is a charge set by local authorities to help pay for certain public services such as libraries, schools and police. The University can provide a letter confirming your status as a full-time (or part-time) student and while you are in the "writing-up" phase of study, (which is normally for a period of 12 months from the end of the research phase of study).
Once you have submitted the first draft of your thesis, are waiting for your viva or are completing any corrections following examination, we are unable to provide a council tax exemption certificate. However, the University can prepare you a Confirmation of Study letter. It is then your responsibility to establish eligibility with the Council Tax Office.
Can the University of Bradford recommend someone to proofread my work?
The University of Bradford is unable to offer a proof reading or checking service, however, Academic Skills Advice has resources you may access, for further information please visit Academic Skills.
How can I apply for a thesis embargo?
Students can apply for a thesis embargo by completing the relevant form (see forms section of the website). The form must be returned to your supervisor who will notify your faculty, your faculty will arrange for a Publications Adjudications Panel who will approve or deny the request. Please note that an embargo is treated as a serious matter, however, the University acknowledge that there are circumstances that require such action.
Can my supervisor be appointed as an examiner?
No, your supervisor cannot be selected as an examiner; the main reason for this is that it poses a conflict of interest.
I have a disability; can I make a request for reasonable adjustments to be made for my viva examination?
Yes you can, for anyone with a diagnosed disability you can make a request for reasonable adjustments in your viva examination. You should contact the Disability Service, well in advance of your submission for examination, so they can assess your needs.
Any further questions?
Should you not find the answer to your question, please do get in touch as your question will help us to update this site. Please e-mail your PGR Faculty Administrator, contact details may be found on the Home page of this site.

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/research-students-intranet/SitePages/Completion.aspx

Postgraduate Researchers
Completion
Approval of thesis title and sub-title
Not less than three months before the submission date the proposed title and sub-title of the thesis should be submitted to the Postgraduate Research Administration Team for approval by the Faculty Postgraduate Research Sub-Committee. This applies to all research degrees. Thesis title approval forms are completed in e:Vision.
The sub-title must be not more than 30 words and must include the words in full for any abbreviations used in the title. Outside of explaining abbreviations, it is not recommended to repeat the keywords already used in the title. If no sub-title is required, please just state N/A when completing the Approval of Thesis Title Form.
Students must submit up to 10 Keywords for the purpose of indexing. Please do not exceed the 10 word maximum.
Approval of Thesis Title
Please note: you should retain the title approval letter you receive from the Postgraduate Research Administration Team to ensure when you submit your thesis that the title, sub-title and keywords match. Any discrepancies in this information will lead to delays in the Postgraduate Research Administration Team sending out your thesis for examination.
Length of thesis
The maximum length of the thesis is as follows:
Doctor of Philosophy 80,000 words (absolute maximum: 100,000)
Professional Doctorates Please check the programme specification for your year of entry for guidance on the word count.
Master of Philosophy 40,000 words
Appendices and bibliography are excluded from the above upper limits.
Please note: Examiners have in the past been very critical of excessively lengthy theses.
Style and layout of thesis
The following requirements are specified with regard to style and layout:
Important: Year of Submission:
Please use the year that the thesis were originally submitted prior to your first Viva Voce examination. This is important as it advises the reader in which year your research was current. You should not change the date even if your final submission occurs in a different academic year.
Font: 12 point Arial.
Line spacing: Minimum 1.5 up to double line spacing.
Left-hand margin: 40mm
Other margins: Recommended minimum 20mm, but may be more.
Pagination: The title page must not be numbered. Starting with the Abstract, pages must be numbered in lowercase Roman numerals centred at the foot of each page, up until the last page before the start of Chapter One.
From the start of Chapter One, each page must be numbered in the normal style, eg. 1, 2, 3. Page numbers must be centred at the foot of each page.
Contents: A paginated list of content must be included at the front.
Title page
The title page must give the following information in the order listed:
- The approved title of the thesis;
- The approved sub-title of the thesis;
- The total number of volumes if more than one, and the number of the particular volume;
- The full name of the candidate. It is important that forenames (in full) should be in lower-case letters and the surname or family name only in capital letters;
- The degree for which the thesis is submitted;
- The full name of the Faculty/Department in which the candidate is registered followed by 'University of Bradford';
-  The year of submission;
- The title page must not be numbered
Abstract
The abstract should be placed immediately after the title page. It should not exceed 250 words, summarising the contents. It should be headed with the candidate's name, the title of the thesis and up to ten subject keywords. After the degree has been awarded, the University may publish the title and abstract of the thesis and authorize others to do so. Page numbering in lower-case Roman numerals starts from the abstract onwards up until Chapter One.
Acknowledgement and dedications
If you wish to include an acknowledgement and/or dedication these should be included in the thesis after the abstract.
Main Body of the Thesis
From the start of Chapter One, each page must be numbered in the normal style - 1,2,3 etc, and page numbers must be centred at the foot of each page, continuing up until the end of your thesis, including any appendices.
Citation and Referencing Guides
Please be aware that different academic disciplines have different preferred styles for referencing. Please discuss with your supervisory team and also the Library's Citation and Referencing Guides are useful.
An example of thesis layout "Sample Thesis" can be found in the Documents section of the Research Students SharePoint site.
You may also find MS Word help, which is available online, a useful tool when it comes to formatting your thesis in line with the requirements.
Submission of the thesis
Thesis submissions are made electronically.
When you are ready to submit your thesis, please contact your Faculty PGR inbox for more detail. They will be able to provide you with guidance of how to submit your thesis on CANVAS and open a submission box for this purpose.
Deadlines
Submission of the thesis is expected during the writing up period. The length of registration for a Full-time PhD student is 4 years, from your date of registration. For a part-time student it is 7 years from the date of registration. These are the last possible dates you should work towards for the submission of your thesis. This is recorded on your student card and is displayed in e:Vision.
You should contact the Postgraduate Research Administration team three months in advance of when you expect to submit your thesis to begin preparation for your submission and examination.
The thesis must be laid out according to University standards. Any thesis not produced according to University standards will be rejected. To avoid disappointment , please ensure your thesis complies with University's Research regulations.
Front cover and spine
The thesis must have on the front cover:
- the initials and surname of the candidate.
- the title of the thesis (exactly the same as the approved title).
- the name of the degree for which the thesis is submitted.
- the year of your original submission i.e. pre Viva Voce examination.
The approved sub-title must appear on the title page underneath the title, but not on the cover of the thesis. Please do not include any other qualification titles you have received within the title/cover pages of the thesis.
What to include with your thesis:
- One copy of your electronic thesis
- One copy of any other material which is being submitted with the thesis.
- Thesis Submission Form, this is completed in e:Vision and certifies the work is an original work produced by you.
For PGRs who wish to print a copy of their thesis for their own records, on the spine we recommend the following written downwards so that it can be read as if a book laid flat, face upwards:
- the name of the candidate (surname or family name and initials).
- the name of the degree.
- the year of the original submission.
In addition, you may require:
- A Declaration of English Language Assistance.
- A Certificate where part or all of the research was undertaken away from University, signed by the External Supervisor or responsible person, that the thesis consists of the student's own work (this is normally done as a statement signed by the appropriate person and is bound within the thesis).
- If the work was done in co-operation with others, the candidates contribution must be certified in a statement by the candidate as to the share which the candidate has personally taken in the work (this is normally done as a statement signed by the student and is bound within the thesis).
Staff candidates with two External Examiners may wish to consider providing the Internal Chair (link person) with a copy of the thesis. This copy can be given direct to the member of staff concerned. At minimum the Staff candidate must provide the Link Person with their Thesis Abstract and Table of Contents.
Students must have available at their Viva Voce a copy of the thesis, paged in exactly the same way as the formal copy submitted to the PGRA Team. This copy is for your own reference during the Viva.
Additional material and appendices
Where applicable, diagrams, maps and similar documents may be submitted in a portfolio of any size but must bear the particulars as shown on the thesis cover and spine.
Where it is necessary to include a substantial amount of support material within a thesis, such information may be contained in an appendix which depending on the size, can form a second volume and needs to be clearly titled when submitted electronically. It should be stated in the thesis, at the appropriate point, what software has been used.
COVID-19 Impact Statement
At submission of the thesis, PGRs may include a statement summarising the research that had originally been planned and how disruption to their research, caused by the pandemic, has altered those plans. PGRs should seek guidance and support in writing this statement from their supervisory team, or their faculty Director of PGR. This statement should set the context of the submitted research within the assessment requirements for the research degree for which the PGR is registered. The statement should include a timeline of planned research that has no longer been possible together with a timeline of work successfully undertaken. The statement should include a summary of the work that has been undertaken in an attempt to mitigate the disruption to the PGR’s original, pre-pandemic schedule.
Please note, completion of the forms are not compulsory. However, if a PGR believes their work has been affected by the COVID-19 pandemic, we recommend this is completed with the guidance of the PGRs supervisor or Faculty Director of Postgraduate Research. In submitting a statement, PGRs agree that the contents will be provided to their examination team. Forms can be found on the Documents section of the Research Students SharePoint site.
Re-submission of the thesis after the first viva
If your Examiners have recommended an outcome of Revise and Re-present of your thesis, the process above detailing pre-viva submission must be followed again. You must keep the year of submission the same as the original submission, for example, if you first submitted in 2012 and you are re-submitting in 2013 please also put 2012 on your re-submitted thesis.
The Postgraduate Research Administration Team are responsible for submitting revised theses to Examiners - no person is allowed to send a copy of a revised thesis to the Examiners prior to formal re-submission.
For further details on revisions to the thesis, please see Amendments to Thesis further down the page. Once again, re-submission of your thesis will be managed electronically.
Final submission post-viva / exam
Please see information regarding Final Submission further down the page.
Appointment of examiners
The request for the appointment of examiners needs to be made at least 3-months before the expected thesis submission. The required form can be found on the documents section in the Postgraduate Researchers site, along with guidance.
Two Examiners are normally appointed for each candidate for a research degree, one of whom is an External Examiner and the other a member of the academic staff of the University who shall not be the candidate's Supervisor. In all cases an Independent Chair is required.
A list of currently approved chairs can be obtained from the Postgraduate Research Administration Team.
Supervisor's responsibilities
The Regulations for Research Degrees state that the appointment of Examiners must be proposed by the Supervisors and approved by the relevant Director of Postgraduate Research for the Faculty. In turn, the recommendation for the appointment of Examiners is approved by the Faculty Postgraduate Research Sub-committee and the Research Degrees Sub-Committee.
The completed 'Recommendation for Appointment of Examiners' Form should be submitted to the Faculty Postgraduate Research Sub-committee (via the Postgraduate Research Administrative team) for approval as early as possible and no later than two months prior to submission of the thesis. Details received after this time may lead to delays in finalising examination arrangements.
Prior to submitting the completed recommendation for Appointment of Examiners Form the Supervisor/s and/or Director of Postgraduate Research for the Faculty should ensure all proposed examiners are willing to act in this capacity and the balance of the examining team (subject expertise and/or examining/supervisory experience) is fully considered.
Please also note, for proposed External Examiners, we also request a full academic CV be attached to the Appointment of Examiners Form (this should include a list of publications, together with research student supervisory and examining experience).
Further information
The role and responsibilities of the Examiners are explained fully in Guidance for Internal and External Examiners for Research Degrees (on the Academic Quality Unit website).
Full guidelines for research examiners can be found in the Guidance for Examining Teams for Research Degrees document located on the documents section of the Documents section of the Research Students Sharepoint site.
The formal requirements underpinning the appointment of Examiners are also set out in the Ordinances and Regulations for Research Degrees.
Examiners for staff candidates
Members of academic staff who are candidates for a higher degree by research must have two External Examiners. In these circumstances there is no Internal Examiner but an Independent Chair known as a Link Person is normally appointed.
The request for the appointment of examiners needs to be made at least 3-months before the expected thesis submission. The required form can be found on the documents section in the Postgraduate Researchers site, along with guidance.
The Role of the Link Person
The Link Person is not an Examiner. Their role is to liaise with the External Examiners and the candidate in co-ordinating arrangements for the Viva. In particular, they should ascertain whether the student wishes the Supervisor(s) to be present at the Viva and then inform the Supervisor(s) whether or not they should attend.
The Link Person should chair the Viva and ensure it is conducted according to University Regulations, and where appropriate liaise with the External Examiners, candidate and Supervisor(s) after the Viva.
Research Assistants
Research Assistants are classified as members of academic-related rather than academic staff and, as such, the normal arrangements for the appointment of examiners apply (that is appointment of an External and an Internal Examiner).
More detailed information may be found in the Guidance for Internal and External Examiners of Candidates for Research Degrees, available on the Learning, Teaching and Quality Enhancement website.
Supervisor(s) role at the viva
Under the Regulations for Research Degrees, the Supervisor(s) are permitted to attend the Viva and may be invited by the Examiners to offer comments at any appropriate point during the examination process. The Supervisor(s) may request permission to clarify a particular point during the course of the Viva.
The candidate should be consulted by the Internal Examiner prior to the Viva to confirm whether or not the Supervisor(s) should be present. If the candidate indicates that they would prefer the Supervisor(s) not to attend the Viva then they will not do so. It is the responsibility of the Internal Examiner to advise the Supervisor(s) accordingly.
The Supervisor(s) and the candidate are required to withdraw from the Viva before a formal decision on the thesis is taken.
If the Supervisor(s) do not attend the Viva they should be contactable during the examination in order that the Examiners may, if they wish, seek clarification on any particular issues, which may have arisen in relation to the work submitted.
Viva Voce decision and examiners' decision
The Viva Voce (Oral Examination) - arrangements
The Viva Voce can be held face to face, or online via MS Teams. This decision will be informed by the Postgraduate Researcher at the stage the examining team is appointed, and all those involved in the examination must be in agreement about how it is delivered.
It is the responsibility of the Internal Examiner to make arrangements for the Viva Voce (Viva for short, but also known as Oral Examination) and to confirm the arrangements directly with the student (for staff candidates, the Internal Chair will make and confirm the arrangements). The External Examiner/s should also be fully consulted and informed of the arrangements. In terms of the presence of the supervisor, please see below:
- Under the Regulations for Research Degrees, the Supervisor(s) are permitted to attend the Viva and may be invited by the Examiners to offer comments at any appropriate point during the examination process. The Supervisor(s) may request permission to clarify a particular point during the course of the Viva.
- The candidate should be consulted by the Internal Examiner prior to the Viva to confirm whether or not the Supervisor(s) should be present. If the candidate indicates that they would prefer the Supervisor(s) not to attend the Viva then they will not do so. It is the responsibility of the Internal Examiner to advise the Supervisor(s) accordingly.
- The Supervisor(s) and the candidate are required to withdraw from the Viva before a formal decision on the thesis is taken.
- If the Supervisor(s) do not attend the Viva they should be contactable during the examination in order that the Examiners may, if they wish, seek clarification on any particular issues, which may have arisen in relation to the work submitted.
Please note, the Postgraduate Research Administration Team may not know the Viva arrangements upon submission of your thesis, your Faculty PGR Administrator will contact you to confirm arrangements via your bradford.ac.uk e-mail account once these have been confirmed by the internal examiner.
The Viva will normally be arranged within eight weeks of submission of thesis to the Postgraduate Research Administration team. In terms of timeliness of examination, supervisors and PGRs should refer to the Appointment of Examiners process, which emphasises that it is essential that examiners are approved in advance to formal thesis submission.
The Viva is normally held on University premises or online, although it may be held away from the University if particular circumstances make such an arrangement more convenient for those concerned. Please note, all parties involved with the Viva must agree to this taking place off site and permission must also be sought by the Internal Examiner (or Internal Chair in the case of staff candidates) in advance from Faculty Postgraduate Research Sub-Committee. The Faculty Postgraduate Research Sub-Committee request should include confirmation that all parties agree, indicate a suitable venue and confirm that examination conditions can still be met.
At the Viva, the External Examiner will act as the principal examiner. The Internal Examiner will assist the External Examiner and exercise a major function in ensuring that the Viva is conducted in a supportive atmosphere with due regard to relevant University procedures, policies and regulations. The latter functions are met for Staff Candidates by the Internal Chair.
The length of the Viva is at the discretion of the examiners. Typically it may last from 1.5 to 3 hours. Only in exceptional circumstances should the candidate be examined for in excess of 3 hours and regular comfort breaks should be offered.
Examining teams will also be informed prior to the examination if there are any reasonable adjustments that need to be accommodated based on the PGRs Learner Support Profile.
Viva Outcomes
After the assessment has been completed students will be told informally by the examiners the outcome of the examination. A joint report will be prepared by the examiners and students will receive a copy, and formal notification of the outcome of their examination once it has been approved at Faculty Postgraduate Research Sub-Committee.
More information of possible outcomes is given in the Research Regulations - (this also includes information about the Appeals process for Research Students).
Lastly, the most common pass outcomes - minor corrections, major corrections and re-submit revised thesis - together with follow-up processes are further summarised below.
Amendments to the thesis
The detailed requirements for amendments to your thesis are set out in the Postgraduate Research Degree Regulations.
Please pay particular attention to the points below:
Minor Corrections
Normally minor corrections (outcome 1.2 on the Examiner's report form) are those which are undertaken to the satisfaction of the Internal Examiner only within 3 months.
When submitting the revised thesis for consideration by the internal examiner, candidates must:
1. Provide a table of changes linked to the list of corrections provided by the examiners, indicating where in the thesis these have been adapted, e.g. page number.
2. Clearly demonstrate throughout the thesis where amendments have been applied, e.g. track changes, highlight text etc.
Major Corrections
Normally, major corrections (outcome 1.3 on the Examiners report form) are those which are undertaken to the satisfaction of the Internal Examiner and External Examiner within 6 months and may include more extensive editorial changes to the thesis which would not require re-examination by the External Examiner. On the specific recommendation of the examiners, this period may be extended up to 12 months.
When submitting the revised thesis for consideration by the internal and external examiners, candidates must:
1. Provide a table of changes linked to the list of corrections provided by the examiners, indicating where in the thesis these have been adapted, e.g. page number.
2. Clearly demonstrate throughout the thesis where amendments have been applied, e.g. track changes, highlight test etc.
Supervision
Supervisors have a duty of care to the student in providing advice where the examiners have recommended that amendments be made to the thesis. This will be equally applicable in the case of a student permitted to revise and re-present the thesis and in the case of a student required to make minor or major corrections.
Revision of the Thesis
Where a student is required to revise and re-present the thesis, the Internal Examiner should forward to the Principal Supervisor a full statement describing those areas in which the thesis was found to be unsatisfactory and the Supervisor will then pass this to the student and give advice as appropriate. Please note that we make a charge to students who are required to be re-examined. At 2020/21 rates this is £500.
Additional points are:
- The Director of Postgraduate Research must ensure appropriate supervision is available during the revision stage.
- Where additional work has to be done (e.g. processing new data) the Faculty/Department must ensure the student is provided with appropriate facilities.
- The Postgraduate Research Administration team are responsible for submitting revised theses to examiners - no person is allowed to send a copy of a revised thesis to the examiners prior to formal re-submission.
Final Submission
Deadlines
As a general principal, the sign-off of all examination paperwork (this is arranged by academic Schools) has to be with Postgraduate Research Administration team at least 3-4 weeks before the start of any graduation ceremony period. The exact deadline in every academic year for each set of ceremonies is always circulated to Faculties/Departments in advance. Furthermore, Faculties (via the PGR Administration Team) select students for ceremony, as they will be aware of submission/viva dates (in advance of examination).
Please see 'Preparation for Graduation for the deadline for the next ceremony.
Final Submission
Final submission of doctoral theses are now electronic.
Submissions will be made electronically via CANVAS. Please contact your Faculty PGR inbox for more detail. N.B. Electronic submissions must follow University style and layout guidelines. An example thesis can be viewed in the Documents section of the Research Students Sharepoint site. In addition, we will require the electronic thesis/deposit agreement form.
- One permanently bound copy of the thesis with hard covers - perfectly bound (fixed black binding in which the sheets are sewn) with cloth-covered boards in black as per Research Regulations.
- One electronic copy of thesis, this electronic version will ultimately be available online unless restrictions apply. Please ensure the electronic copy is in Word format only.
  -- It is a requirement that the Word copy is in an editable format for administrative purposes, for example, to enable any unauthorised copyright material to be removed for the purposes of electronic publication.
- An Electronic Thesis/Deposit Agreement Form granting the University the right to make the thesis available online
Permanently bound copies of the thesis
There is no regulatory requirement to submit a Hard Bound version of your final thesis, however, should you wish to provide a print copy to the library or your faculty you may do so. However, we would ask that you consider the environmental and cost implications of doing so first. You will still need to submit an electronic version as noted above, in addition to the below:
- One permanently bound copy of the thesis with hard covers - perfectly bound (fixed black binding in which the sheets are sewn) with cloth-covered boards in black as per Research Regulations.
Please refer to the section on style and layout.
Front cover and spine
The lettering on the permanently bound copy is done in gold on black hard covers.
The bound thesis (both temporary and permanent) must have on the front cover:
- the initials and surname of the candidate as per first binding;
- the title of the thesis (exactly the same as the approved title);
- the name of the degree for which the thesis is submitted;
- the year of submission.
On the spine there must be the following printed downwards so that it can be read when the book lies flat, face upwards:
- the name of the candidate (surname or family name and initials); 
- the name of the degree;
- the year of submission.
The approved sub-title must appear on the title page underneath the title, but not on the cover of the thesis. Please do not include any other qualification titles you have received within the title/cover pages of the thesis.
Preparation for graduation
Requirements for Research Students
All Postgraduate Researchers MUST
- Submit one Final electronic copy of their thesis in Word format via CANVAS.
- Submit a electronic deposit agreement form.
Failure to do the above will result in the withholding of your degree certificate until the above requirements are met
N.B Bound thesis are no longer required and final thesis submissions will be made electronically only.
Next Step
Ceremony invites will be sent out from the Ceremony and Events team via email in due course.
Information on gown hire; photographs; tickets and Frequently Asked Questions can be found at our graduation website.

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/research-students-intranet/SitePages/Support-for-Students.aspx

Postgraduate Researchers
Support for PGRs
Induction Programmes
The University Induction Programme is delivered three times per academic year, following each new student intake, for new Postgraduate Research (PGR) students. In addition, Faculty induction will take place following each new intake of students.
The Faculty and University induction sessions are a requirement for all new PGR students across the University, whether part-time or full-time.
Induction will help you understand the academic and social environment in which you are working and provide an introduction to a range of University services available to you.
In addition, Faculties/Departments or individual Supervisors provide induction to your specific research area. The arrangements will be provided by your PGR Administrator.
PGR Representatives
PGR Representatives (reps) gather feedback and opinions and speak on matters raised in various committees held across the University. Reps effectively act as the voice for their fellow PGRs with the aim to develop and improve the experience for PGRs at Bradford.
You can feedback to your PGR rep on various issues and they can take any concern you may have to forums where this can be fed back and acted upon by the University.
A list of current PGR reps can be found on the PGR Representatives section of the BRDF SharePoint. It also gives you more information about how you can volunteer as a rep. Volunteering as a rep offers the opportunity to develop new and existing skills, thus enhancing your CV and employability. You will also gain insight into the research governance and strategy in a UK academic environment in Higher Education, which is particularly relevant to those wanting a career in academia. The rep roles map with the national Researcher Development Framework used in Bradford's DNA process, so consider running to be a rep if you want to develop any of these areas:
- B1 Personal qualities - integrity and responsibility
- B3 Professional and career development - continuing professional development and networking
- D1 Working with others - collegiality, team working, influence and leadership
- D3 Engagement and impact - policy, society and culture
Support for Personal and Professional Development
Supervisors will complete a development needs analysis with you to identify any training and development you will require to support your research. There is further provision of skills development which can be accessed across the University.
Teaching or Support teaching
The Bradford:Fellowships scheme offers a coherent, whole career framework to support the development of those involved in teaching and/or the support of learning. There a three intakes per year and these can be found, along with application details on the Bradford:Fellowships website.
Training and Development for Doctoral Students
Please see the Bradford Researcher Development Framework website.
PG Researcher Development
Please see the PG researcher development webpage to access Doctoral Skills appointments and new resources available. Also there is Handy Hints for PhD students which is full of useful information.
Workshops and Clinics
Check out the Workshops and Clinics website for information.
Library workshops for Researchers
The Library offers workshops to all research students - please go to the library webpage for more details. As well as research specific workshops, the library has generic workshops that you may find of interest.
Bradford Researcher Development Framework (BRDF)
The Bradford Researcher Development Framework (BRDF) is a programme that provides a flexible, inclusive and progressive structure to enhance the University's approach to the development and training of PGRs.
You can find upcoming sessions, along with a list of our programme of training below, plus information on the Development Needs Analysis process for PGRs and guidance for supervisors.
No matter which stage of the PGR journey you are at, you can find related guidance on the milestones coming up and development opportunities which are relevant to you.
Facilities available for PGRs
PGR Lounge
Social learning space dedicated exclusively to PGRs at the University of Bradford.
Located in Carlton Building on the city centre campus, it includes group study facilities, bookable meeting spaces, quiet study areas and social spaces.
Other campus facilities
Other facilities available to you will vary from one research area to another for a number of factors, including the nature of the research and the size of the academic area concerned. You should be advised before the start of your programme what facilities you will be provided with. The facilities provided should normally include the following (for certain items it may be necessary for a charge to be made):
- library resources including access to journals, databases and other electronic resources, as well as InterLibrary Loans and SCONUL Access (which allows you to use other university libraries).
- IT resources including word processing, spreadsheet packages, statistical and graphics packages, email and internet access.
- working space with a desk and associated storage, preferably within your immediate work environment.
- where appropriate to the research project, access to laboratory facilities, laboratory consumables, scientific instrumentation, photographic services and software commensurate with the nature and possible scope of the research.
- photocopying facilities and, where directly relevant to the research project, appropriate access to internal and external telephone networks.
Your Faculty/Department is expected to ensure that you are provided with appropriate training to enable you to use such facilities effectively. If it is the policy to charge students for using any of these facilities, in full or in part, this should be clearly stated in the information made available to you by the Faculty/Department prior to registration.
Academic English Language Support
The University Language Centre offer a range of English language classes and support to help you get the most from your studies at the University of Bradford. Please use the link above for more information.
Pastoral care
Any problems arising during the course of a PGRs research should normally be discussed initially with the Principal Supervisor.
If a student feels their work is not proceeding satisfactorily for reasons beyond their control, they may:
- contact their Faculty/Department Director of Postgraduate Research (or an alternative if this person is their own Supervisor).
- discuss a matter with someone outside their Faculty/Department i.e. their Head of Department, Dean of Faculty or the Chair of the Faculty Post Graduate Research Degrees Committee.
PGRs are advised that any problems arising during their period of study should be brought to the attention of the Director of Postgraduate Research (or other persons as noted above) in order that any difficulties may be addressed and resolved as they arise.
Please note: unless any problems arising regarding inadequacy of supervisory or other arrangements during the period of study are raised before submission of the thesis, no subsequent appeal against a decision of the Examiners may be based on a complaint on these grounds, unless there are exceptional reasons for it not having come to light until after the assessment.
Supervisors
Supervisors should appreciate that these procedures may enable a PGR, if the working relationship has not been established, to initiate an amendment to the supervisory arrangements.
Similarly, a Supervisor having difficulties in establishing a working relationship with a PGR should, in the first instance, discuss this with their Department/Faculty Director of Postgraduate Research and/or Associate Dean. This procedure may, likewise, initiate an amendment in the supervisory arrangements.
Personal harassment
If a PGR feels they are being subject to personal harassment including bullying they should seek advice immediately via the Equality and Diversity Team. Any incident of this nature will be regarded extremely seriously by the University.
Equality, Diversity and Inclusion
The Equality and Diversity Team provides a Dignity and Respect advice service.
Counselling Service
Counselling service provides counselling for both enrolled students and staff at the University. There is a drop-in service during term time or bookable appoints.
Director of Postgraduate Research
A Director of Postgraduate Research is nominated in each Faculty/Department. This member of staff is responsible for:
- all administrative matters relating to the acceptance, progress and assessment of research students in the area concerned;
- providing an independent route if a student wishes to seek advice on any difficulty relating to the supervisory process or are in need of pastoral care (where the Director of Postgraduate Research is the students Supervisor then alternative arrangements will be made);
- ensuring that the student is given the opportunity to provide feedback on academic provision and support facilities.
Faculty Postgraduate Research Sub-Committee
The Faculty Postgraduate Research Sub-Committee is usually chaired by an Associate Dean for Research and Knowledge Transfer and is responsible for the policy, direction and quality assurance of graduate research throughout the University.
Terms of Reference
The Faculty Postgraduate Research Sub-Committees make recommendations to the Learning and Teaching Committee on the following business:
1. To advise and report to the Learning and Teaching Committee on matters of academic policy relating to higher degrees by research
2. To formulate, for consideration by the Learning and Teaching Committee, Ordinances and Regulations for higher degrees by research
3. To make recommendations to the Learning and Teaching Committee arising from periodic, major reviews of academic policy relating to higher degrees by research
4. To formulate, for consideration by the Learning and Teaching Committee, procedures, guidelines and Codes of Practice relating to higher degrees by research
5. To co-ordinate institutional quality assurance and learning support activities, with a view to assuring the security, quality and standards of University awards for higher degrees by research, both in relation to internal and external candidates
6. To inform and consult as appropriate Research Strategy Committee
7. To consider on behalf of the Faculty matters relating to individual candidates for higher degrees by research including the following and, where appropriate, to make recommendations to Senate:
  a. admission
  b. suspension of registration
  c. extension of registration
  d. titles and sub-titles of theses
  e. restriction of access to theses
  f. appointment of examiners
  g. examiners' reports
  h. recommendations for termination of registration
  i. and other matters as may be appropriate.
Breaches, Appeals and Complaints
Find out more on the Academic Misconduct, Appeals and Complaints website.
PGR Connect
PGR Connect is a PGR-led peer support scheme that aims to offer a support network for our postgraduate researchers. The scheme strives to foster a sense of belonging and community, help PGRs adjust to or progress in their studies, and mitigate the sense of isolation that can sometimes develop due to the unique way postgraduate researchers study and work.
For further information please see the PGR Connect site.

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/peer-mentoring-intranet/SitePages/Peer-Mentoring-for-Students.aspx

Peer Mentoring
Peer Mentoring for Students
Peer mentoring at Bradford aims to support:
1. Student transition into/through university
2. The employability of students that mentor
3. A sense of community & belonging
Peer mentors aid newer students by:
- Offering one-to-one guidance to assigned mentees, or group based support
- Focusing on helping them to adjust to HE life and study, or with a particular area of study
- Empowering them to find their own solutions and build learner independence and confidence
Benefits for stu dent mentees can include:
- Feel less vulnerable or uncertain
- Obtain greater social and academic confidence
- Become aware of other student services and support
- Be more pro-active in their development and learning
Benefits for peer mentors can include:
- Skills, experiences and concrete examples for CVs, applications etc.
- Transferable skills and personal development
- Opportunity to help others
-  Personal satisfaction of making new students feel more welcome
- Being part of/creating a new community
- Enjoyable and rewarding experience – the chance to make a difference
- Peer Mentor role is a Bradford Employability Award for the HEAR
Student/recent graduates apply to be a peer mentor and, if successful, are invited to peer mentor training. Once in the role they receive ongoing support and guidance.
For interest in being a peer mentor please contact the team.

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/peer-mentoring-intranet/SitePages/Running-and-setting-up-of-a-Peer-Mentoring-Scheme.aspx

Peer Mentoring
Setting up a Peer Mentoring scheme
Current peer mentoring schemes:
-MSc Physician Associate Studies
Peer mentoring schemes can be set up on any programme, at any level of study, for certain modules or for particular groups of students, just get in touch with the team to discuss.

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: http://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/student-casework-intranet/SitePages/Appeals.aspx

Student Casework
Appeals
About appeals
If a student is not happy they can appeal against a decision made at all stages of the both the Student Fitness to Practice Procedure and Student Disciplinary Procedure.
- For appeals against a Stage One decision: if a student is not satisfied with the outcome of the case at Stage One, they may request that the case be considered at Stage Two of the Procedure.
- For appeals against a Stage Two decision: if the student is not satisfied with the outcome of the case at Stage Two, they may request that the case be considered at Stage Three of the procedure.
- For appeals against a Stage Three decision: if the student is not satisfied with the outcome of the case at Stage Three, they may request that the case be considered at the Appeal Stage of the procedure.
Grounds
Appeals must be submitted to the University Secretary within ten working days of the notification of the initial decision to the student.
An appeal may only be on three grounds:
- Lack of procedural fairness
- New evidence or evidence that was not available at the time of the hearing
- The decision was manifestly unreasonable
The University Secretary will review the appeal against these grounds and determined whether there is sufficient justification to progress the case further.
How to make an appeal
Appeals should be submitted to the University Secretary via governance@bradford,.ac.uk
In all cases, the onus is on the student to demonstrate, through evidence, that they have a valid ground of appeal.
All evidence must be presented with the appeal submission.
Further evidence cannot be presented at an Appeal Panel, although the University Secretary may ask a student to submit further information or evidence to substantiate their appeal.
Once an appeal request has been lodged and accepted, no penalty or sanction will take effect until the appeals procedure has been exhausted but where a student has been suspended from their studies, from accessing services on campus or has been removed from placement, the suspension will remain in place.
Appeal panels
Where a valid appeal against a Stage Three decision has been submitted, a new Panel will review the Appeal as set out in the Appeal Stage of the Process as set out in the Procedure.
The burden of proof at the Appeal Stage is on the student to demonstrate their grounds of appeal.
The Chair of the Appeal Panel will consider whether a hearing is required or if the evidence submitted can be considered without a hearing: if a hearing is required, appeal panel will hear evidence from the student, the investigator and, where appropriate, the Chair of the Stage Three Fitness to Practise Panel.
After considering all the evidence, the panel shall decide whether to reject or uphold the appeal. The student will be informed in writing within ten working days.
The decision of the appeal panel is final and represents a completion of procedure: a Completion of Procedures letter shall be issued.

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/chaplaincy-services-intranet/SitePages/understanding-other-faiths.aspx

haplaincy Services
Understanding Different Faiths
Every religion has its own practices and traditions. Being at university you will meet people who dress in particular ways, eat foods prepared according to certain rules and worship and pray at specific times of day in special places.
Living and working with people who have differences to your own lifestyle is a wonderful opportunity to learn more about the world in which we live. The Chaplaincy is committed to supporting this process and you will see us working with each other through diversity events, celebrating and raising awareness of the different faiths that make up our university community.
University is a safe place for asking questions and experiencing new things, there is always much to learn about each other.
The first three major religions, Islam, Christianity and Judaism are called the Abrahamic religions because they all believe that there is one God who created Heaven and earth. They all have the story of Adam and Eve and their descendants until the time of Abraham, and they all developed in the same part of the world – the Middle East. It is the primary figure in their tradition that led to 3 distinct religions: Judaism follows the Old Testament teaching of Moses primarily; Christians follow the teachings of Jesus Christ in the New Testament while Muslims follow the teaching of the prophet Muhammad (PBUH) in the Qur’an. The root is the same, the branches have evolved differently.
Other religions such as Hinduism, Sikhism and Buddhism, which grew out of the experiences and traditions of Asia. Buddhism isn’t in fact a religion, it is a philosophy. Hinduism celebrates the many facets of the divine as characters through the Vedas: Hymns to the ancient gods. Sikhism follows the teachings of ten Gurus through history who each gave insights into God and encouraged a righteous life. These other religions are very different to each other but also have similarities, for example Hindus believe that Buddha was an incarnation of their God Vishnu. Hindus and Sikhs believe in reincarnation of the soul and the cycle of life and death leading to a higher state and a closer relationship to God. Here in Bradford we have the opportunity to visit many places of worship on the first Saturday of each month from March to October. For further details of the Bradford Faith Trail.
What follows is an attempt to capture an overview of many of the different Religions found within our community. For convenience a framework has been established so that it is convenient to compare different human experiences and life stages. Of necessity this has meant that it is an overview and not a complete guide to every faith and belief practice.
- Baha'i
- Buddhism
- Chinese Community
- Christianity
- Free Churches or Non-Conformsist/Protestant
- Othodox Churches, - Eastern, Greek & Russian
- Quakers
- Humanism
- Hinduism
- Islam
- Judaism
- Sikhism
- Travellers
Spiritual Care for People of Different Faiths
Introduction
This is an attempt to support anyone who is involved in caring for people with a range of spiritual, religious, or cultural needs. It is not designed to be the last word in these things, but rather a general introduction that will hopefully encourage you to begin confident conversations with the people for whom you care. No single person comes as a textbook case. Everyone has their own personal set of traditions, cultures, and expectations. To understand these better, you should have open conversations where you can share, learn, and appreciate the different views of other people.
For balance and ease this information provides a set layout to provide a comparative approach to key life events in each of the main faith communities, here in Bradford.
What do we mean by “spiritual needs?
People may not fully understand our language, when we talk about “Spirituality”, but every single person has a right and a need to have their uniqueness recognised, appreciated, and valued. Every time that we experience emotions such as awe and wonder, grief and loss, joy, and contentment, we are responding to something “other”, something external to who we are. This booklet is a tool to help people who care for others, to recognise the significance of those responses, and to understand the place that faith and belief might have in influencing decisions that your clients might make.
One definition of spirituality is “the search for meaning and purpose in life”. Religion and Religious practice/observance may be one way of exercising that search. A conversation with someone about their spiritual needs, which may uncover an existing faith practice could be framed around the following questions:
1. Do you have a belief that draws on a specific religious tradition? Is this better understood as a philosophy of life drawn from an organisation?
2. Tell me about some of your beliefs and truths, that are part of your tradition.
3. How do these beliefs influence your view of life and your daily practice?
4. Are there specific rituals or expressions of faith that you are required to practice daily?
5. Are there artifacts or rituals or possessions which bring spiritual comfort or support?
These questions are not specific to any one tradition or philosophy. The answers offered may or may not give you clues about the beliefs that a person has but will open the conversation for further discussion. People with a faith, belief or philosophy often appreciate being asked about this, so don’t be afraid to seek clarification about anything that you don’t understand. The important thing is that you do not make assumptions about people’s beliefs and behaviours. Not every follower of a particular belief behaves, responds, or acts in the same way to another. A good example would be the assumption that someone would not eat a certain food because it is often identified as being prohibited by a religious group.
The key to real understanding is the appreciation of the uniqueness and individuality of the person in front of you.
By talking openly and confidently you will learn much that will influence the kind of care that you can offer, the relationship that you have with that person, and ultimately your own personal knowledge and professional practice.
Under the Equality and Human Rights Act of 2010, it is against the law to discriminate against someone because of their protected characteristic. These include:
- Age
- Disability
- Gender reassignment
- Marriage and civil partnership
- Pregnancy and maternity
- Race
- Religion or belief
- Sex (gender)
- Sexual orientation.
Religion refers to any religion, including the right to have no religion. Belief refers to any religious or philosophical belief and includes the right to have no prescribed belief system. Generally, a belief system influences your life choices or the way that you live your life for it to be included in this definition.
People do not fit into neat categories and so it is also important to consider issues around intersectionality when supporting an individual. This means that you may find yourself reflecting on what life is like for a disabled atheist transwoman, a divorced Polish Roman Catholic, or a young gay Muslim man? These are just examples obviously, but very few people are defined by one single characteristic, and the expectations of one characteristic may well cause areas of friction within another.

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/:u:/r/sites/chaplaincy-services-intranet/SitePages/HUMANISM.aspx

Chaplaincy Services
HUMANISM
Throughout recorded history there have been many non-religious people who have believed that this life is the only life we have, that the universe is a natural phenomenon with no supernatural side, and that we can live ethical and fulfilling lives based on reason and humanity. Humanists have trusted to the scientific method, evidence, and reason to discover truths about the universe and have placed human welfare and happiness at the centre of their ethical decision making.
Many millions of people in the UK share this way of living and of looking at the world, but many of them may not have heard the word ‘humanist’ and perhaps don’t realise that it describes what they believe.
Leadership:
Humanist UK (www.humanist.uk) advance free thinking and promote humanism to create a tolerant society where rational thinking and kindness prevail.
Diet:
Many humanists have become vegetarian or vegan, but one must not generalise.
Death:
No particular rites.
Last Offices:
Usual procedures.
Autopsy/Transplants:
No objections
Funeral:
Naming ceremonies, marriage and funeral ceremonies can all be arranged with a humanist celebrant to assist. Non-religious ceremonies are shaped around the person involved and often feature stories about the person. For a Humanist these ceremonies represent something essential and timeless – the shared values and narratives that connect us with each other,
Obviously, no Sacred Texts:
Many books are available now about humanism, and there are significant writers who have identified themselves as such, David Hume, Charles Darwin, Thomas Hardy, Albert Einstein, George Orwell, Marie Curie, and Richard Dawkins.
Frequently Asked Questions
What is Humanism - is it a religion?
Humanism is explicitly not a religion, but it is considered a worldview. Roughly speaking, the word humanist has come to mean someone who:
- trusts to the scientific method when it comes to understanding how the universe works, and rejects the idea of the supernatural (and is therefore an atheist or agnostic).
- makes their ethical decisions based on reason, empathy, and a concern for human beings and other sentient animals.
- believes that, in the absence of an afterlife and any discernible purpose to the universe, human beings can act to give their own lives meaning by seeking happiness in this life and helping others to do the same.
Oh, so humanists are just angry atheists then who are anti-religious?
Not at all. Humanism is a positive non-religious worldview that is tolerant of a range of viewpoints and outlooks. Most humanists don't mind what others believe and usually share many of the same values of tolerance and compassion for others that is seen in the 'golden rule' idea throughout human belief. Humanists dislike discrimination, though so they do sometimes campaign to challenge perceived religious privilege such as with faith schools, Bishops in the House of Lords, or laws on blasphemy. Of course like any group or outlook there are a range of opinions, including some who are more hostile to religious belief.
Are there many humanists? How do I know if I am one?
Humanism is not new. With the British Social Attitudes Survey showing that as much as 53% of the UK population is non-religious, further analysis points to about half of these people sharing humanist outlooks. Numbers are far higher among younger age groups too. Although the term is not commonly used it is increasing, and the philosophy behind humanism goes back to Ancient Greece, the renaissance, and thinkers from the age of reason and beyond. If you'd like to learn more why not take the quiz to find out if you might be a humanist?

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/chaplaincy-services-intranet/SitePages/when-to-contact-us.aspx

Chaplaincy Services
When to contact a Chaplain
The University of Bradford Chaplaincy Service is here to support everyone, student, staff, family and friends.
Chaplains at the University Chaplaincy here in Bradford can support you or accompany you on occasions such as:
- you’re finding university life difficult and need someone to talk to;
- you need time to think; you need help in times of crisis;
- you need to make a decision and need support in doing so;
- you regret what has happened and need to move on;
- someone has died and you need support;
- you want to deepen your spiritual experience;
- you have personal struggles or relationship problems.
Chaplains have links with specialist sources of help on campus here in Bradford and part of Student Life and Wellbeing Services. We can help you to access appropriate support.
The Chaplaincy can also signpost you to different places of worship for each faith across the City of Bradford.
The Co-ordinating Chaplain can put students and staff in touch with other faith traditions, the best way to make contact is via email to chaplain@bradford.ac.uk, or by telephone to 07901 670365.

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/chaplaincy-services-intranet/SitePages/who-we-are.aspx

Chaplaincy Services
Chaplaincy Team - who we are are where to find us
The Co-ordinating Chaplain can put students and staff in touch with other faith traditions, the best way to make contact is via email to chaplain@bradford.ac.uk, or by telephone to 07901 670365.
All the Chaplains can be contacted directly by email below.
The Chaplaincy is found in the Student Services Area of Student Central. The Co-ordinating Chaplain is based in the Student Life Team and can be contacted via the My Bradford Help Desk.
There is a growing resource area within the Faith Space with selection of books, pamphlets, and aids for meditation. This is both a social space for Chaplaincy activities, but also a quiet space for individual use (prayer, reflection or being quiet) this must be booked through the Co-ordinating Chaplain. Drop-in sessions are held each Wednesday for the FAB Club, usually 12 noon until 2.00pm term times.
The Carlton Prayer Room open to all but designed for Muslims to fulfil their religious obligations and is adjacent to the Gym building which is also used for Friday Jumah Prayers.

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/:u:/r/sites/chaplaincy-services-intranet/SitePages/TRAVELLERS.aspx

Chaplaincy Services
TRAVELLERS
Belief:
Essentially Christian, mostly either Irish or European Roman Catholic.
Diet:
No special requirements but make a cross-reference the Roman Catholic notes about fasting for holy days.
Death:
Again, follow Roman Catholic guidance.
Autopsy/ Transplants:
No objections to transplants and transfusions.
Funeral:
Big family and society gatherings, following Roman Catholic Mass, opportunity to celebrate wealth and success of the bereaved.
Sacred Books:
The Bible.
Special notes:
The Irish Traveller community has a long history, with its own traditions, language, practical skills, culture, arts and music, with distinctive patterns of living (e.g. nomadism,) keeping of horses, and strong values built around families, care and extended families. One of the biggest influences on Traveller culture is the nomadic lifestyle, which has differentiated between Traveller and “settled” lifestyles. Nomadic lifestyles serve three functions within the community; they are social, economic, and cultural.
The situation of Travellers is a difficult one, with the traditional way of life. These difficulties are characterised by the following:-
- Poor living conditions; many in unauthorized sites and finding it difficult to obtain either sites or accommodation of reasonable quality in acceptable locations.
- Ill-health; evidenced in life expectancies which remain typically ten years less than the settled population.
- Limited educational achievement; a reflection of the lack of opportunities, with few Travellers progressing to second level (less than 3% completing) and only a handful individuals reaching third level.
- Discrimination; Travellers constitute the largest single category of discrimination reported to the responsible agencies.
- Identity Issues; problems of identity arising from their minority status.

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/:u:/r/sites/chaplaincy-services-intranet/SitePages/BAHA%27I.aspx

Chaplaincy Services
BAHA'I
Baha'is believe that God periodically reveals his will through divine messengers, whose purpose is to transform the character of humankind and to develop, within those who respond, moral and spiritual qualities. Their Religion is seen as orderly, unified, and progressive from age to age. Bahāʾīs believe in the oneness of humanity and devote themselves to the abolition of racial, class, and religious prejudices. The great bulk of Bahāʾī teachings is concerned with social ethics. The faith has no priesthood and does not observe ritual forms in its worship. Founded in 1844 in Iran, it is the youngest of the world’s religions.
Leadership
The Baha’i Faith have no clergy. Leadership belongs within the community and its administrative order is based on the election of representatives from within the community of the believers by secret ballot.
Sacraments
There are no rituals or sacraments used within worship. There is the recital of a daily obligatory prayer, which is performed individually in private and at a time and place of their choosing. I bear witness, O my God, that Thou hast created me to know Thee and to worship Thee. I testify, at this moment, to my powerlessness and to Thy might, to my poverty and to Thy wealth. There is none other God but Thee.
Diet
There are no clear dietary restrictions, however alcohol and addictive drugs are forbidden unless advised and prescribed by a physician.

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/:u:/r/sites/chaplaincy-services-intranet/SitePages/ORTHODOX-CHURCHES,---EASTERN---GREEK-%26-RUSSIAN.aspx

Chaplaincy Services
ORTHODOX CHURCHES, - EASTERN / GREEK & RUSSIAN
The origins of this group of people are found in the Eastern Orthodox Churches which are mainly spread throughout the middle East, Russia, and Egypt (where they are sometimes called Coptic Churches). As migration spread across Europe and into the United Kingdom a few of these Churches became established. In Bradford there is St Joseph’s Orthodox, and a Serbian Orthodox Church both within Little Horton. They are part of the oldest form of the Christian Church and split from the Roman Catholics in the year 1054.
They are very similar in their belief and practice to other Christian Churches, their main disagreements were over the use of leavened or unleavened bread, the role of the Pope in Roman and the See (head) in Constantinople.
Leadership:
Archbishops, Bishops, and Priests, usually known as Father.
Sacraments:
As Roman Catholic
Diet:
Lent Observance (6 weeks up to Easter) taken most seriously.
Death:
May request anointing with oil.
Last Offices:
Usual procedures
Autopsy/Transplants:
No objections on Faith grounds.
Funeral:
Either Burial or Cremation.
Sacred Book:
Bible
NB. Most Orthodox Churches use the Julian Calendar so most Festivals will be celebrated approx. 13 days after Churches using a western Calendar.

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/:u:/r/sites/chaplaincy-services-intranet/SitePages/Chinese-Community.aspx

Chaplaincy Services
Chinese Community
Within the United Kingdom the Chinese Community maintain a significant but almost invisible presence. Often families may be living in isolation, which means that close knit family relationships are very important. This cultural community traditionally follow one of four major religions, though each of the four may have their own distinct Chinese influence: The four are:
- Confucianism
- Taoism
- Buddhism
- Roman Catholic Christianity.
Whist the Buddhist and Roman Catholic traditions are described in more detail elsewhere in this booklet, it is worth exploring the other two.
Confucianism:
In China this is also known as Juchiaco, the sect of the Jus, which is a moral code of conduct. Confucianism believes in ancestor worship and human-centred virtues for living a peaceful life. The golden rule of Confucianism is “Do not do unto others what you would not want others to do unto you.” There is still a debate between scholars as to whether Confucianism constitutes a religion. Confucianism is a way of life propagated by Confucius in the 6th–5th century BCE and followed by the Chinese people for more than two millennia. It remains the social code of many Chinese and continues to influence other countries, particularly Korea, Japan and Vietnam. Confucian philosophy states that “Fate” controls worldly events, and the Divine will regulate the order of nature. There are no Confucian gods, and Confucius himself is worshipped as a spirit rather than a god. However, there are temples of Confucianism, which are places where important community and civic rituals happen.
Taoism:
Taoism has been connected to the philosopher Lao Tzu, who around 500 BCE wrote the main book of Taoism, the Tao Te Ching. Taoism holds that humans and animals should live in balance with the Tao, or the universe. Taoists believe in spiritual immortality, where the spirit of the body joins the universe after death. Taoism is more mystical and less pragmatic than Confucianism. The Tao focuses on ideals of balance and order, and often uses nature as a metaphor. Taoism, unlike Confucianism, rejects rank and class. Taoists shun aggression, competition, and ambition, and promote obedience, respect, and kindness.
Taoists stress the importance of harmonizing with nature by balancing the yin and yang and developing chi through meditation and disengagement. The human body is regarded as a source of chi-derived energy, which some people have the power to concentrate and congeal into an essence. Chi (also spelled ch'i or qi) is variously known as the "breath of heaven," “mystical breath," the "breath of nature" and the "quality of spirit"
In classic Taoist belief, matter and energy are thought to be governed by five basic movements. The strength and influence of these movements wax and wane over the course of a year; with wood peaking during spring, fire during summer, metal in autumn and water in winter. The remaining movement, earth, asserts its presence most powerfully during the periods before the start of each season.

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/:u:/r/sites/chaplaincy-services-intranet/SitePages/Christianity.aspx

Chaplaincy Services
CHRISTIANITY
At its most basic, Christianity is the faith tradition that focuses on the figure of Jesus Christ. In this context, faith refers both to the believers' act of trust and to the content of their faith. As a tradition, Christianity is more than a system of religious belief. Christians believe that there is only one God, whom they call Father, as Jesus Christ taught them to do. Jesus is recognised as the true son of God and functions via the Trinity.
Christians recognise Jesus as the Son of God who was sent to save humanity from death and sin. Jesus Christ taught that he was the Son of God. His teachings can be summarised, briefly as the love of God and love of one's neighbour. Jesus said that he had come to fulfil God's laws and the prophecies which were taught in the Old Testament, to demonstrate how to live it rather than teach it.
A major Christian doctrine is the Justification by faith: Christians believe that through their belief in Jesus and in his death and resurrection, they can have a close relationship with God, whose forgiveness was made once and for all through the death of Jesus Christ.
Christians believe in the Trinity - that is, in God as Father, Son and Holy Spirit. Some confuse this and think that Christians believe in three separate gods, which they don't. Christians believe that God took on the human form in Jesus Christ, and that God is present today through the work of the Holy Spirit, which is evident in the actions of believers. Christians believe in a life after death. Christians believe that many spiritual experiences in this life help to give them some idea of what eternal life will be like.
Over the centuries The Church as the earthly body of Christ has been devolved and schisms have created a multitude of denominations. The three main ones are described below.
Roman Catholic Church
The Roman Catholic Church traces its history right back to Jesus Christ and the Apostles. The apostle Peter was made earthly head of the Church, prior to the Ascension of Jesus Christ. It is assumed that he was then the first Pope and each one since can be traced back to Peter via spiritual succession. Over the course of the centuries, the RC Church developed a highly sophisticated theology and an elaborate organizational structure headed by the papacy, the oldest continuing absolute monarchy in the world. Through mission and movement there has been a worldwide spread of this Church with active ministry especially in South America, Europe, the Far East and Africa.
Leadership:
Each provincial area is managed by a Cardinal, who then appoints bishops, priests, and deacons. Lay ministry is recognised, but the ordination of women to the Priesthood is not yet accepted. Women have traditionally been called into a life of mission prayer and service through becoming a nun or sister.
Sacraments:
Baptism, Holy Communion (Known as Mass) Marriage, Ordination, Confirmation, Confession, and anointing with oil (Unction).
Diet:
Some traditionally may prefer to not eat meat on a Friday and to remember the crucifixion. The period of preparation for Easter known as Lent is traditionally a fasting time, having followed Shrove or Pancake Tuesday, when traditionally all perishable foods will have been consumed.
Death:
Holy Communion, the sacrament of the sick, and the anointing of the person will be offered to the dying by a Roman Catholic Priest. Last Rites can be administered up to two hours after the death.
Last Offices:
See above about Last Rites.
Autopsy/Transplant:
No religious objections
Funeral:
Usually Burial with a requiem Mass held afterwards.
Sacred Book:
The Holy Bible
Anglican or Church of England:
Leadership:
Following a spit with the Roman Catholic Church, King Henry VIII declared himself the sovereign head of the Church of England. This as been passed on through the royal dynasties. The monarch appoints two Archbishops (Canterbury and York) to lead the two provinces, which in turn are managed by Bishops, and Clergy. Local clergy are often called by various titles: Rector, Vicar, Curate, Reverend. The Church of England recognise both men and women through ordination, and there is also a very active use of lay licensed ministry. Staff connected to Cathedrals are often called canons and may be lay or ordained.
Sacraments:
There are only two sacraments, Baptism, and the Eucharist, but the Church of England then honours confirmation, ordination, marriage, reconciliation of the penitent, and the anointing of the sick as important religious rites.
Diet:
As in the Roman Catholic Church.
Death:
Emergency baptism may be requested for the dying if they are known to have not been baptised, especially newly born infants. Anyone may administer emergency baptism “in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit, Amen”. There are also set Last Rites, and a communion service(or mass) for the dying. Families may request anointing with oil, for the person nearing the end of their life. Prayers with the family afterwards are also requested.
Last Office:
Usual nursing procedures.
Autopsy/transplant:
No religious objections
Funeral:
Traditionally burial, but more and more families are accepting cremation as the standard procedure.
Sacred Book:
The Bible, consisting of the Old and the New Testaments.
Frequently Asked Questions
Why are there so many different Christian denominations and societies?
There are today a broad range of expressions of Christian belief, from the very informal small community groups to the more formal and structured bodies such as the Church of England or Roman Catholicism. Within the University there is a range of different Societies catering to a range of different people within the Christian tradition. To find out more about what each society offers, go along and get a feel for what it’s like, or message them and ask what their main emphasis is. To find out about the different denominations you can talk to Andrew and he will be more than happy to answer any questions you might have about the denominations within Christianity. Some of the reasons for this are historical, some theological, some stylistic, and usually it’s a combination of all of those that leads people towards one denomination or another.
What is Holy Communion?
Whatever denomination, Christians all believe that Jesus Christ was the son of God; that he died on the cross and then rose from the grave. In dying without having committed a crime he has paid the price for all of our sins. We remember this through the Holy Communion. Often celebrated once a week, Christians gather to share bread and wine or grape juice that has been blessed by a minister. We use the words that Jesus said at the Last Supper with his disciples. The bread represents his body which was broken for us. The wine represents His blood which was shed for us. We pray and acknowledge that we have done and thought wrong things, we ask for forgiveness, and then each take a little piece of the bread and wine. In many churches, anyone can join in the communion service. In some churches it is expected that you will have been confirmed as a Christian before taking the bread and wine. Check with the minister if you are not sure.

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/:u:/r/sites/chaplaincy-services-intranet/SitePages/BUDDHISM.aspx

Chaplaincy Services
BUDDHISM
Buddhism is one of the world's largest religions and originated 2,500 years ago in India. Buddhists believe that the human life is one of suffering, and that meditation, spiritual and physical labour, and good behaviour are the ways to achieve enlightenment, or nirvana. It was brought to the Western world from India, China, Japan and Nepal, and has developed into a worldwide philosophy with different schools represented in many different countries. Some of these schools are more humanistic methods of philosophy, whilst others have elements of a more spiritual religion. The main framework is based upon the teachings of the Buddha (which translated from Sanskrit means the “Awakened One”), who was a teacher who lived in northern India between the mid-6th and mid-4th centuries BCE (before the Common Era). There is no belief in a deity as such, reward or punishment comes through the next life as a consequence of your actions. Enlightenment is the goal of life.
Leadership
Local schools of practice are led by local community leaders. Groups for Meditation are often advertised through educational channels and Adult education providers.
Diet:
Many Buddhists are vegetarian or vegan as it strikes a balance with their desire to do no harm, however this should never be assumed.
Death:
Distress may be caused by offering certain palliative drugs and medication. Especially if there is a sedative which may reduce consciousness. This is because the state of mind at death is of great importance. Often chanting and meditation may be offered. The state of mind influences the character of the rebirth, and peace (enlightenment). This is the ultimate aim. Buddhists seek detailed information regarding their death, to prepare themselves or their loved ones. Open honest and frank discussions are appreciated, giving as accurate a prognosis as possible about the predicted time of death and the symptoms exhibited. Death is a positive transition and therefore they will prefer to be as clear minded as possible. Some Schools of Buddhism will have monks or priests who would be willing to chant prayers for the deceased.
Last offices:
There are no specific Buddhist requirements. It is always useful to consult with family members.
Autopsy/Transplant:
There are no religious objections to post-mortems.
Funeral
Cremation is usual followed by the burial of the ashes. The preferred time frame between the death and the funeral is from three to seven days.
Sacred Books:
Known as the Tripitaka, the sacred texts of Buddhism are broken down into three sections known as baskets. Referred to in the West as the Three Baskets, the Tripitaka includes the Vinaya Pitaka, the Sutta Pitaka, and the Abhidhamma Pitaka.
Festivals:
There are two main festivals in the Buddhist calendar. These are Wesak (or Vesak, is also known as Buddha Day and celebrates the Buddha’s enlightenment.) and Parinirvana Day (a day is to recollect the Buddha’s life and death. Buddhists think about their lives and where they are in relationship to the state of enlightenment or nirvana.) In addition, Buddhists may also take part in retreats, which allow for spiritual development.

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/:u:/r/sites/chaplaincy-services-intranet/SitePages/QUAKERS.aspx

Chaplaincy Services
QUAKERS
The Quakers were formed by George Fox, no ordained ministry, all equal, worship often held in silence as followers await a message or mental picture to share with the group. Focus on human Rights, Peace and anti-war campaigning.
Frequently Asked Questions
Are Quakers Christian?
The Religious Society of Friends (Quakers) was formed in England during the turbulent and dynamic 17th century by George Fox. Quakerism is rooted in Christianity and Quakers are encouraged to learn from the life and teaching of Jesus as well as from a wide variety of other texts. However, many modern day Quakers, especially in Britain, find a home in the Society even if they do not identify as Christian. The essentials of Quakerism, which we call our Testimonies, can be embraced by people across a broad spectrum of belief.
How do Quakers worship?
We gather in silent waiting in our Meetings for Worship. If someone feels moved to speak (we call this 'ministering') during the Meeting, they do so. Some Meetings might be totally silent but often there is quite a lot of ministry. Our silence is a means of deepening our shared stillness.
Are Quakers pacifist?
The testimony most people associate with Quakers is our Peace Testimony. We believe that war and preparations for war are contrary to the teachings of Jesus and the will of God.

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/:u:/r/sites/chaplaincy-services-intranet/SitePages/SIKHISM.aspx

Chaplaincy Services
SIKHISM
The word Sikh literally means discipline, disciple of follower of Sikh Gurus. Sikhism is a monotheistic religion with a belief in only one God. It emphasises social and sexual equality and stresses the importance of doing good deeds as compared to simply performing “rituals”.
The Sikh religion was founded in the18 century CE by Guru Nanak in the Punjab region that now divides India and Pakistan. The religion is based on the teachings of Guru Nanak and the 9 other Sikh Gurus who followed him. Sikhism is Britain’s fourth most popular religion with just over half a million followers. The number of Sikhs all over the world in estimated at 30 million.
Leaders:
Every gurdwara includes a commercial kitchen as well as a hall for community worship and meals (langar hall). Sikhism has no clergy. Anyone qualified may fill any role in worship. A scholar of Sikhism (gyani) leads the congregation in prayer, although they are considered religious officials in Sikhism, they are not considered to be the equivalent of a priest, as the belief is that there are no such religious intermediaries. The Sikh believes that a human being is a combination of body and soul.
Names:
Sikh names are distinct, and follow a formula: Male -Singh, Female -Kaur is included in the family names for example: Davinder Kaur Bhuller, and Sanjit Singh Bhuller.
Diet:
No Beef in any form, some may not eat Pork, No alcohol or tobacco.
Washing:
As with most people from an Asian background, free flowing water is usually preferred.
Death:
Death may be regarded as a step in life and not necessarily an occasion for mourning. A devout Sikh may wish to recite hymns from the Guru Granth Sahib or hear family members do so. Many families may wish to wash and lay out the body themselves. The five symbols of Sikhism, worn by most Sikh men should not be removed, the hair and beard should be left uncut, and the turban left in place. The body should be straightened, and wearing the Kaccha, they should be wrapped in a plain white sheet. Sikhs will usually be cremated, preferably within 24 hours of death.
The five “K’s”
- Kesh: uncut hair and beard, men keep their hair under a turban.
- Kanga: a small comb always worn in the hair.
- Kara: A steel bangle worn on the right wrist.
- Kirpan: A short sword or dagger.
- Kaccha: A special type of knee length underwear.
Autopsy/ Transplants:
Sikhs do not like the idea of a post mortem, but will obviously accept it if it is legally unavoidable.
Funeral:
Stillborn and neonates are buried, otherwise, if possible, cremation within 24 hours.
Sacred Books:
Guru Granth Sahib, wrapped in a costly cloth.
Temple:
The Gurdwara
Special Notes:
The Sikh believes that a human being is a combination of body and soul. Not only does a Sikh have to remain under physical discipline, but has to follow certain moral laws as well. A human has to perform three duties, to oneself, to society, and to the creator. Those who understand the duties to yourself and the wider society are often held in high regard.
A Sikh aims to live honestly, to treat everyone equally, and to be generous to those in need. To work hard and serve others, to rise early and perform prayers, to abstain from alcohol tobacco or recreational drugs.

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/:u:/r/sites/chaplaincy-services-intranet/SitePages/FREE-CHURCHES-or-NON-CONFORMIST-PROTESTANT.aspx

Chaplaincy Services
FREE CHURCHES or NON-CONFORMIST/PROTESTANT
Over the Centuries the Christian Church has experienced division and separatism usually over matters of doctrine or management. There are many different Christian Denominations that are part of the Free Church/Protestant traditions. Most believe the same basic creed that Jesus was both human and divine, that his sacrificial death bought forgiveness. They also believe in the Trinity of Father Son and Holy Spirit.
Leadership:
Some Churches still call and recognise Clergy to be ordained, others appoint leaders from within heir community. Leaders are known as Ministers, Pastors, Deacons, or Elders.
Diet:
No restrictions on religious grounds.
Death
Prayers may be said for the dying person and their family/friends.
Last Offices:
Usual procedures but always useful to talk to the family.
Autopsy/Transplants:
No objections on religious grounds.
Funeral:
May be burial or cremation
Sacred Book
The Holy Bible.
Within this category may be found:
The Methodist Church, founded by John and Charles Wesley (both Anglican Priests) Strong tradition of regular small groups, and hymn singing.
The United Reformed Church. Founded by bringing together the Congregational and Presbyterian Church. There are still independent Congregational and Presbyterian Churches scattered around the United Kingdom.
The Baptist Church. With a history of schism and split there are a variety of Baptist Churches from the Baptist Union, through to the Gospel Standard Strict and Particular Baptists. They all reject infant baptism and reserve it for adults who have confessed their faith, repented of their sins, and sought Baptism by total immersion.
The Church of Scotland: akin to the Church of England, but with Presbyterian roots and The Episcopal Church of Scotland akin to the Roman Catholic.
Pentecostal: Focus on the blessing of the Holy Spirit, praying and speaking in other tongues, seeking prophecies and healing.
The Salvation Army: Not sacramental, they are styled on a military structure, focus on social action with the poor, traditionally nondrinking or use of addictive drugs including tobacco.
The Quakers: Formed by George Fox, no ordained ministry, all equal, worship often held in silence as followers await a message or mental picture to share with the group. Focus on human Rights, Peace and anti-war campaigning.
The Brethren: No hierarchy, recognise different ministry in different individuals.
Many African Free Churches have recently become established and also More Free Charismatic Evangelical Churches, with links to “New Wine” or American movements.
In addition to the above there are several other groups who do not fit with the above but still generally have their roots within the Christian tradition.
These would include the Church of Jesus Christ and Latter-Day Saints (Mormons), The Jehovahs Witnesses, Christian Scientists, Seventh Day Adventists, Plymouth Brethren and many more.

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/:u:/r/sites/chaplaincy-services-intranet/SitePages/HINDUISM.aspx

Chaplaincy Services
HINDUISM
Hinduism is the world's oldest religion, according to many scholars, with roots and customs dating back more than 4,000 years. Today, with about 900 million followers, Hinduism is the third-largest religion behind Christianity and Islam. Almost 95 percent of the world's Hindus live in India. Hindus believe in one God and worship that one God under many different manifestations, deities, or images.
Examples of Hindu deities are Krishna, Shiva, Rama, and Durga. Hindus believe that existence is a cycle of birth, death, and rebirth, governed by karma which is a complex belief in cause and effect. You get in the next life what you deserve from the last.
Leadership:
In a local Temple or Cultural Centre there is usually a Priest taking care of the worship space.
Diet:
Many Hindus are vegetarian, they will not eat animal products, beef, ham, bacon, pork. They will not eat off a plate where meat has been previously served.
Washing:
Free flowing water is ideal, so a container of water is helpful for example if a person is in hospital and requires a bedpan or WC. Hygiene rules are very important. Modesty is important. A female Hindu will prefer to be treated by a woman care professional.
Death:
Where possible Hindus would prefer to die at home, they may wish to lie on the floor closer to the earth. A Priest may perform rituals involving tying a thread around the persons neck or wrist, sprinkling them with Holy water from the Ganges River, placing a sacred leaf in the person’s mouth. The body should not be washed without first informing the family, so communication is vital. Grief is often expressed vocally with great weeping and wailing. Traditionally the eldest son will take part in the washing and preparing of the body, and it is preferable that non-Hindus do not touch the body. After death the body should not be left uncovered, and jewellery and the sacred threads should not be removed.
Last Offices:
See above. Do not remove sacred threads. Do not wash the body, this is part of the funeral rite.
Autopsy/Transplants:
Post-mortems are often perceived as disrespectful and abusive and should only be performed if legally required. If necessary, then it is important to ensure that all the organs are returned to the body before the Cremation. This safeguards a peaceful existence in the afterlife. Cremations should take place as soon as possible after the death.
Sacred Books or Texts:
The Vedas Upanishads, and the Bhagavad Gita are both sacred accounts of early encounters with the gods.
A red mark placed on a woman’s forehead usually signifies that she is a Hindu.

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/:u:/r/sites/chaplaincy-services-intranet/SitePages/Islam.aspx

Chaplaincy Services
ISLAM
Islam: Arabic word meaning “Peace”
(Muslim- meaning literally “one who submits to the will of Allah” “God”)
Islam teaches that God is the absolute owner of everything and humanity are His trustees. This world is a place of trial and testing, in preparation for death where each will be judged according to the amount of good or evil that has been performed. Each person is then rewarded or punished according to their behaviour on this earth. The framework that is used as a basis for belief for a Muslim is called the “Five Pillars of Islam”. These are obligatory acts of worship for all Muslims. They are summarized in the hadith of Gabriel. The Sunni and Shia agree on the basic details of the performance and practice of these acts, but the Shia do not refer to them by the same name. They are:
- Profession of Faith (shahada). The belief that "There is no god but God, and Muhammad is the Messenger of God" This is central to Islam.
- Prayer (salat). Muslims pray facing Mecca five times a day: at dawn, noon, mid-afternoon, sunset, and after dark.
- Alms (zakat). Giving to the poor brings blessings both to the recipient and to the giver.
- Fasting (sawm). Regular fasting for spiritual development as well as during the season of Ramadan when fasting takes place between sunrise and sunset.
- Pilgrimage (hajj). For those who are physically and financially able to make the journey to Makkah, the Hajj is a once in a lifetime duty that is the peak of their religious life.
Leadership:
The local mosque has an Imam or teacher who will preach and give guidance, especially at Friday prayers known as “Jummah”. An imam delivers a sermon (khutbah) after the prayer. Only men are expected to pray on Fridays, but women are welcome to attend.
Diet:
Lawful food is called Halal , which means that they are made, produced, manufactured, processed, and stored using machinery, equipment, and/or utensils that have been cleaned according to Islamic law (shariah). Free from any component that Muslims are prohibited from eating according to Islamic law.
Birth:
A male Muslim child is required to be circumcised as soon as possible. Often and older member of the family will whisper a verse from the Qu’ran into the baby’s ear as a first sound, and dates or honey are placed on the baby’s tongue for sweetness to be the first taste.
Death:
As with birth relatives of the dying person may whisper in their ear the articles of faith so that these are the last words he or she might hear. (“Verily we belong to Allah, and truly to Him shall we return”). They may wish to lie facing Mecca with the foot of the bed towards Mecca. The body should not be touched by non-Muslims after death. The body is covered and a light left on where the body is placed prior to burial.
Last Offices:
These should be carried out by Muslims of the same gender as the deceased.
Autopsy/Transplants:
Post-mortems are not normally allowed; the body is considered to belong to God. If a post-mortem is legally necessary, the family may be very distressed.
Funeral:
The body should be buried within 24 hours. The grave must face Mecca so must the feet of the dead person.
Sacred Book:
Qu’ran (Koran). The Divine Revelation for Almighty Allah to Mohammed the prophet.
Frequently Asked Questions
Isn’t Islam really difficult to follow?
No – it’s the basis of our life, not an extra. Once it’s in your daily routine you don’t even have to think about it. From the outside it might seem quite strict and a lot to take on, but when it’s been a part of your routine for years you don’t think of it as an extra responsibility.
How many times do you pray? What are the requirements?
Muslims are required to pray five times a day. The times at which these prayers happen is flexible, and changes depending on when the sun rises and sets. In order to pray, Muslims just need a space where they can lay out their prayer mat and carry out the rituals of prostration (kneeling face down on the floor) and prayer. Don’t worry – we won’t mind a slightly noisy environment, and we don’t need to be by ourselves, although some people may prefer to be. Some people may also prefer to take off their shoes, whereas some people think it’s fine to keep them on.
Why is there such a wide variety of ways that Islam is practised?
There is a wide variety of ways in which Islam is understood and practised. Some people are very orthodox and adhere to a strict set of rules, whereas others feel they can be more relaxed. There are also a variety of schools of thought on how the Qur’an should be interpreted. No one of these understandings is uniquely 'right' - different people simply have different views.
Our Muslim Advisors
Aicha Bahij is a lecturer in Sociology and Criminology within the Faculty of Management, Law and Social Sciences. Alongside her academic work, Aicha is an artist and researcher. Her artwork and research explore the human condition, focusing on how we express ourselves and the ways our identities, cultures, and beliefs shape both how we perceive ourselves and how others perceive us. Aicha has been serving as the Muslim Faith Advisor at the University for 8 years, where she provides support and guidance to Muslim students and staff, fostering an inclusive and understanding environment. She works to ensure that the needs of Muslims on campus are met, particularly with regard to religious practices, cultural integration and promoting wellbeing. Aicha also offers advice and support on academic and personal challenges, encouraging dialogue and awareness across the university community
Shamsuddin Ahmed is a student casework officer at the university. He has previously worked in the local authority (youth & community service, regeneration & corporate law). He has previously been an employment tribunal lay representative for nearly a decade and a Chaplain with the NHS since 2010 engaging with both patients and staffs engaging on routine and complex matters. He is a member of the West Yorkshire Police Independent Scrutiny and Advisory Panel and also has a passion in safeguarding in educational settings (primary and secondary) and is an accredited training consultant. Community empowerment and working with young people has been a prominent feature of professional life. In his spare time enjoys cycling and flying light aircraft.”

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/:u:/r/sites/chaplaincy-services-intranet/SitePages/JUDAISM.aspx

Chaplaincy Services
JUDAISM
Judaism is one of the three major monotheistic religions. (The other two are Islam and Christianity). All three faiths recognise the prophet Abraham as their ancestor, the first human to have a personal relationship with the Creator God. Known as a Patriarch.
The essential belief is that there is one Spiritual God who cannot be represented in any shape or form. The law is found within the Old Testament, the promised Messiah is still to come, and so they wait for Him.
The Sabbath is observed from Sunday on Friday until Saturday evening, and no work should be caused or carried out during this period.
Heads are usually covered, men wear a kippah, or yarmulke, a brimless cap, usually made of cloth, A woman would wear a headscarf or a wig – referred to in Yiddish as a sheitel – they signal to other people that they are married and that they comply with traditional notions that are socially acceptable.
Leadership:
In individual religious congregations or synagogues, the spiritual leader is the rabbi. Rabbis are expected to be taught in both the Talmud and the Shulkhan Arukh (Code of Jewish Law) as well as many other classical texts of Jewish scholarship. There are three different branches of Judaism: Orthodox, Conservative and Reform.
Birth:
Male babies have their bris, or circumcision on the 8 day after prayers, usually carried out by a mohel or trained doctor. This service includes special prayers and readings.
Diet:
Food must be designated as Kosher: this means that c ertain animals may not be eaten at all. Of the animals that can be eaten, the birds and mammals must be killed in accordance with Jewish law. All blood must be drained from meat and poultry or broiled out of it before it is eaten. Certain parts of permitted animals may not be eaten. Meat products and Milk or milk products must never be mixed or combined.
Death:
When a Jewish person is dying it is not permitted in Jewish law to move or touch them in any manner that may be seen to hasten death. Whilst there is no ceremony of last rites, the dying person may wish to recite the “Shema” a daily prayer for ancient Israelites found in the book of Deuteronomy. “Hear O Israel, the Lord is our God, the Lord is one. And as for you, you shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, and with all your strength.” According to Jewish law a dying person should never be left alone.
Burials usually take place within 24 hours of death. This is only delayed for the Sabbath. Cremation is not permitted in Jewish Law.
Autopsy/Transplants:
Post-mortem examinations are not permitted in Jewish Law except in cases of emergency or when the law demands it.
Sacred Books:
Hebrew Scriptures- The Torah (Old Testament in the Christian Bible) and the Talmud, which is a record of Rabbinic debates and the law.
Other Information:
Sabbath Observances
The Sabbath (in Hebrew, Shabbat , pronounced shah-BAHT–or in some communities, Shabbos, “SHAH-bis”) is Judaism’s most distinctive and characteristic practice. A weekly 25-hour observance, from just before sundown each Friday through to the completion of nightfall on Saturday, Shabbat is more than just a day off from working. It is a day of physical and spiritual delights that is meant to illuminate certain key concepts in the traditional Jewish perception of the world.
One constant theme in Shabbat observance across time and territory is the centrality of home life with family members and guests. Preparation for Shabbat begins as early as mid-week in some households, and its arrival is marked by the spiritual illumination of a candle-lighting ceremony. Rabbinic tradition mandates three Shabbat meals, two begun with a special kiddush (“sanctification”) recited over wine. Family meals are occasions for singing, studying, and celebrating together, as well as for consuming distinctive Shabbat foods. Nothing that requires labour, or forces another person into labour should be carried out during Shabbat.
Frequently Asked Questions
What is kosher food?
Kosher means fit or appropriate. Jewish laws state that meat and dairy should never be combined, and that only certain types of meat and fish are permissible to eat. Animals are slaughtered in a particular humane way (very similar to halal meat for Muslims). The animals that are considered non-kosher are deemed to have qualities or characteristics that do not elevate the consumer, as eating is part of a nourishment of the soul as well as the body. Eating according to a kosher regime is an opportunity to shop, cook and eat mindfully and ethically.

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/it-services-intranet/SitePages/%27Content-from-camera%27-no-available-in-Teams-(Microsoft-update).aspx

IT Services
Share whiteboards and documents using your camera in Teams (Microsoft update)
Note: This feature is in the process of being rolled out, and not everyone gets it at the same time - if you don't have it yet, you will have it soon.
This new feature lets you stream content to your audience directly from a whiteboard or a documents in a legible way.
During a Teams call, select the button > Content from camera. Two projection options appear:
- Whiteboard: Point your laptop webcam to a whiteboard to project it to your audience.
- Document: Attach an external USB camera, such as a document camera mounted over a document, to project it to your audience.

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/it-services-intranet/SitePages/OneDrive-storage-allocation-is-changing-to-100GB.aspx

IT Services
OneDrive storage allocation is changing to 100GB
Currently, students and staff get 5TB of storage with their OneDrive (cloud-based file storage we get as part of our University IT accounts). However, Microsoft will be making a change in September that means staff and students will each get a new allocation of 100GB of storage.
Most staff and students store data that are well within this new limit. If you are among the small number of people with data that exceed 100GB, we will contact you directly to make you aware, and to give guidance on what you need to do.
Please note that this change only affects OneDrive and does not impact on SharePoint or Teams storage.
You can see how much space you're using on your OneDrive, and identify your largest files, by following this Manage your OneDrive for work or school storage guidance from Microsoft - this page shows how you can check either via the sync client method (if you use this) or via the OneDrive website.
Note: If you are trying to view your storage usage via the OneDrive sync client method on a University device, rather than via the OneDrive website method, make sure you look at the number at the bottom left of the settings window (not the number in the centre of the window).
File management - good practice
-  Please review your OneDrive content frequently and delete any files you no longer need. This helps you to stay within your storage limit and helps with carbon footprint (even though files are stored ‘in the cloud’, this still comes with a carbon cost).
Note: When you delete files from OneDrive, they go into your OneDrive’s recycle bin for 30 days before they are deleted forever, so you have a chance to retrieve deleted files during this period if you need to.
- OneDrive should be used for your own working files only, and not business-critical files. Business critical files should be stored on SharePoint instead (in an Office 365 Group or a Microsoft team), so that other appropriate colleagues also have access when you are away or if you leave the University.
- Staff: Not sure what you should be keeping, and for how long? See the records management information on the Information Governance intranet site (an updated version of the records retention schedule is also currently in development).

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/career-and-employability-services-intranet/SitePages/Assessment-centres.aspx

Career and Employability Services
Assessment centres
An assessment centre is often the last stage in the recruitment process for many graduate roles. If it is part of the process, you will usually be invited to attend an assessment centre after the initial application stage. It may last from half a day to several days, and provides an opportunity for the employers to get to know more about you, to see how you perform at certain tasks and judge your interaction with others. Employers are checking to make sure you have the right competencies and are a good fit for the role.
An assessment centre may involve:
- A range of assessment techniques (such as interviews, psychometric testing, individual and group exercises) allowing the assessors to see you handling different situations.
- Assessment on a number of competencies or skills such as leadership ability, team working, interpersonal skills, communication and problem-solving.
- Several candidates being observed together by the assessors.
Preparation for assessment centres
See our interviews page for details on how to research the company, job and sector. There is more information on assessment centres on our online careers resource Build My Career and check our workshop schedule for upcoming mock assessment centre sessions.
What to expect- FAQs
How long is the assessment centre?
- You will be told in advance the timings of the event so that you can make travel plans.
- Assessment centres are focused events lasting from a short session (of up to four hours) to two full days.
How many candidates will be invited?
- Up to 30 other candidates could be in attendance, but you may be divided up into small groups for particular exercises.
- Some employers invite much smaller numbers.
What do I wear, and is there anything I should bring with me?
- Dress as you would if you were attending an interview.
- You will be told if you need to bring anything extra e.g. clothing for outdoor exercises.
- You may receive a checklist from the employer stating what to bring to the assessment centre. Make sure you bring everything listed, including any official documents requested, otherwise you may not be able to take part. You should also bring a notebook and pen, and a watch to time yourself during tests and activities
How do I behave?
- You will be under scrutiny as part of the selection procedure at all times, so act naturally but be aware of the need for good manners, polite behaviour and to act in a pleasant and friendly way towards other candidates and company personnel.
- Try to relax and be yourself, but ensure that you demonstrate good manners, polite behaviour and act in a pleasant and friendly way towards candidates and company personnel. Assessors often ask for the opinions of the staff who have met you.
- Do not treat others as if they are in competition with you, as you will also be assessed on your ability to get on with your potential colleagues.
- You will be expected to socialise well with other candidates as well as with management, and you are likely to be observed at break times and at social events. If alcohol is available, don’t feel obliged to drink and don’t overdo it; it will be noted, and you may regret it.
Do they pay travelling expenses?
- Most do. If so, you will be informed in the invitation letter.
- If expenses are not mentioned, it is acceptable to make enquiries.
- Make sure you keep receipts.
- Some organisations impose a spending limit i.e. second-class rail or the cost of petrol plus hotel accommodation of up to £80.
- If expenses aren't covered you will need to decide if you want/can afford to go ahead.
What if I have a disability?
- Make the employer aware of any needs you have so that appropriate adjustments can be made.
- These could include extra time given to candidates with dyslexia to complete activities, adjustments to the physical environment, specialist equipment, materials in alternative formats, etc.
- Contact the recruiter as soon as possible to discuss your individual requirements.
Types of activities
Below are some of the more common tasks you may face as part of your assessment centre. You may not have to do all these activities and you may encounter tasks and activities not listed here.
Presentation by the employer
Often, an assessment centre will start with a presentation by the employer describing the organisation, their graduate scheme and career progression opportunities. Generally, you are not assessed during this activity but pay close attention to what is said as it may be useful to you at a later stage (perhaps during one of the activities). Look interested and ask questions too.
Ice-breaker exercises
These are initial exercises to get everyone working together. These might involve a short presentation or group task to build rapport.
Group exercises
In these exercises, your group may be given a problem to solve with a specific objective. It usually isn’t straightforward, and every approach may have disadvantages as well as advantages. The problem may be a physical puzzle to solve, such as building a bridge, or a theoretical one, such as a scenario-based emergency situation where you are presented with facts of the case and must logically work out the best option.
Committee exercise / debates
Within a committee exercise, group members are designated roles and the task may be to come up with a consensus plan that the committee agrees on and puts forward. In this case, the topic might be very vague, so the discussion has to be kept focused if the committee is to achieve something. Within a debate, a topic question may be given and the members are free to discuss the pros and cons of different angles concerning it.
Case study
This could be a group or individual exercise in which you are given official reports, tables of figures, newspaper cuttings, memos, etc. and a problem to solve.
Alternatively, the group may be given a business case study, which has to be analysed and understood before making suggestions for subsequent action. You may be asked to make a presentation about the key issues and suggested strategy, demonstrating that you or the group can respond well to assessors posing questions.
There is often not one specific ‘correct’ answer in this exercise. Recruiters are assessing your ability to analyse problems, prioritise tasks and put forward effective arguments with clarity and tact.
In-tray / e-tray exercise
This task is designed to simulate the administrative features of a job. For example, you may be given a pile of papers representing a post tray containing emails, faxes, memos, letters, telephone messages, reports and computer printouts. Alternatively it could be entirely PC-based (known as an e-tray exercise), where you may be asked to organise and reply to emails in Outlook, amend an Excel spreadsheet, or summarise an article in Word (or a combination of all the above and more).
Report writing / essay
You may be required to analyse problems and present your summary and findings in a written report or essay. You will be assessed on how you use your skills to present focused information that others will understand, the reasoning for your decisions and to test your written skills.
Presentation
This may be about a case study (see above), or about a specific topic given to you either prior to or on the day, with a short time to prepare. These can be individual, or in groups. If an individual presentation is required, but no specific presentation topic given ahead of schedule, it’s worth having a presentation prepared about a topic of your choice. If you know that the subject will be given at the assessment centre, think about how to structure a presentation, consider what type of visual aids you might use, and find out what resources are available.
To prepare for a presentation about yourself, use the Elevator Pitch Builder on Build My Career and the presentation skills advice and information from Academic Skills.
Psychometric Tests (follow link for detailed information)
Interview
Usually all Assessment Centres include an interview with one assessor or a panel.
- The competencies the recruiters have identified as being important for the job will usually provide a framework for the interview.
- Be prepared to have your answers challenged as the interviewer(s) probe you further, test your ability to think on your feet and put across your ideas effectively.
- See the interviews section for more information.
Competencies being assessed
During the activities at the assessment centre, there will be a number of recruiters present making notes about you and the other candidates. They will be looking for various competencies necessary for the role, and the below table describes some of these competencies, and at what what stage they are likely to be assessed.
Competency
Activity
- Adaptability, creativity, initiative
  - Working in group exercises where creative solutions to a problem are required, in tray / e-tray exercises where new tasks may be added during the exercise.
- Leadership, assertiveness, confidence, negotiation
  - Group exercises, discussions and case studies where groups need to agree on a course of action.
- Written communication, basic computer competency, IT skills, information handling, numeracy
  - All written and practical tests
- Business and commercial awareness
  - Report writing and essays, presentations, case studies and discussions.
- Problem solving, analytical thinking, clarity of thinking, judgement, logical thinking, reasoning
  - Many of the activities will require you to demonstrate solid problem solving skills.
- Planning and organising, strategy, action planning, prioritising
  - In-tray and e-tray exercises, debates and case studies.
- Teamwork, co-operation, interpersonal relationships
  - All group exercises, plus your general behaviour throughout the assessment centre.
- Time management, working under pressure
  - Many of the tasks will be challenging and strictly timed.
- Verbal communication, presentation skills
  - Presentations, group discussions and interviews.
Please note this list is not definitive as each assessment will be designed to test your suitability for a specific role, so read the job description carefully for the kinds of competencies you will be required to demonstrate.
For more on competencies, see our developing your skills pages.
Top tips
- You are likely to do better at some activities than others but don’t worry too much - a strong performance in one area can balance out a weaker performance in another. Although there may be a minimum score set for each of the competencies the employer is looking for, you don’t have to do brilliantly in everything to be selected.
- Always pay careful attention to any instructions - if in doubt, ask for clarification.
- Give everything your best shot – get fully involved in group activities, be assertive and persuasive but diplomatic too. In group activities, show that you are listening to others by smiling, nodding and maintaining eye contact.
-  Remember that assessors are looking at how you behave, so even if you don't complete a task, you could still be judged favourably if you were positive and showed good team working skill.
- Acknowledge and build on good points made by other group members as well as putting forward your own case.
- Friendly conversation with other candidates will help you to relax – all (or none) of you may be successful at this particular assessment centre.
After the assessment centre
- Remember, your assessment centre finishes only when you leave the organisation, so be professional at all times. Finally, reflect on how it went. Highlight what went well and what could have been improved on, and then think what action you can take to improve in future.
- If your assessment centre has gone well and you are very keen on the organisation, you may want to send an email telling the recruiter how much you enjoyed the experience (and remember to use a formal and professional writing style, i.e. full sentences, and don't use abbreviations, slang or text speak).
Next steps and further information
- Build My Career: There is detailed information on a range of companies and their interview processes, along with assessment centre tips and practical advice.
- Advice: If you'd like more information on preparing for assessment centres and the tasks you might face, feel free to book an appointment with a career consultant.
- Workshops: We run mock assessment centres as part of our careers workshop programme. Check the schedule and book your place.

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/registry-and-student-admin-intranet/SitePages/Student-Records.aspx

Registry and Student Administration
Student Records
We deal with all student record enquiries working with students, faculties and other relevant departments to resolve issues and queries.
This includes:
- ensuring student records are accurate and up to date
- processing exam results through the pass list process
- processing appeal outcomes
- sending change of circumstance information to the Student Loans Company
- general student record queries including confirmation of end dates
Contact us
- Email: records@bradford.ac.uk
 -Phone: +(44) 1274 238911
Frequently asked questions
When do you confirm my registration to Student Finance?
Both Undergraduate and Postgraduate students need a registration confirmation sending to Student Finance at the beginning of each academic year. This informs them that the student has registered for the upcoming session.
For new students, your registration confirmation is sent after you’ve completed the Welcome / ID check. For returning students, this will be after you have completed your re-enrolment task in e:Vision.
The confirmation is sent electronically to Student Finance, and this will release your maintenance loan. You will usually receive your payment within five working days.
I have an approved Student Finance loan at another university, but I am now studying at Bradford - what do I need to do?
Please send us your Student Finance student support number (SSN) with your name and UB number (you can find your SSN on your entitlement letter or Student Finance portal).
We will then submit a ‘Transfer In’ change of circumstance notification to inform Student Finance that you are now studying at Bradford.
I am transferring to another university - do you need to inform Student Finance?
No. It is the responsibility of the incoming university to submit a ‘Transfer In' change of circumstance notification to Student Finance.
I want to transfer / suspend / withdraw from my course
Before you make any changes please ensure that you have discussed your decision with your personal academic tutor. If you are an overseas student, please also contact the visa support team for further advice.
If you wish to transfer you need to get approval from the new program team before you complete the change of circumstance form in e:Vision.
I have discussed my options, how do I complete a change of circumstance?
1. Sign into e:Vision.
2. Select the Change of Circumstances tab.
3. From the drop down menu make the relevant selection.
4. Follow the instructions to complete the process.
I am suspended and want to return to my studies, what do I do?
If you are currently suspended and wish to return to your studies, please contact your program admin team on 01274 238124.
Once your request has been approved by your faculty your record will be updated. The Records team will submit a Change of Circumstance notification to Student Finance if applicable.
Please note: Student Finance will aim to process this in 20 working days in off peak periods and 30 working days during peak periods from August to the end of November.
I think my end date is incorrect.
Your end date is set when you start and reflects the date you complete the taught element of your programme. It does not usually change unless you need to suspend or repeat a part of your studies.
Please note we do not extend end dates for students doing supplementary assessments or who have extensions to submission dates.
My end date has passed and I need access to complete my supplementary assessment.
Please contact your programme administrator on 01274 238124 who will contact the library and access control to request extended access on your behalf.
I have changed my name, what do I do?
Please send us evidence of your name change so we can update your record. This could include a marriage certificate, deed poll, or updated ID document.
If you are an overseas student your request will be referred to the visa team before the change can be made.
I have been withdrawn and want to make an appeal, what do I do.
If you wish to make an appeal please contact the complaints and appeals team on complaintsandappeals@bradford.ac.uk.
I am studying a course which has integrated placements. I have made a student finance application and the SLC are now asking me for evidence of those placements, what do I do?
When making your finance application, you should only indicate that you are on placement if you are registered on a sandwich course undertaking a full sandwich year placement that year. This is because sandwich years attract a reduced fee liability compared to normal study years. If your course has placements which are integrated and alongside your taught modules, you do not need to indicate you are on placement.
If you are unsure, please check with the SLC, or contact money@bradford.ac.uk who can advise on SLC applications.

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/student-experience-and-success-intranet/SitePages/Student-Experience-&-Success.aspx

Student Experience and Success
Overview
The Student Experience & Success Team aims to understand and support student success at the University of Bradford. This includes a range of activity to support student retention, engagement and transition.
We liaise and work with staff and students across the institution, conducting projects and research and providing specialist advice, activities and schemes.
All of our work draws on relevant pedagogy and is situated within evidence and best practice from the sector. Much of what we do links to institutional priorities including our Access and Participation Plan.
We particularly champion student-led activity and the role that students can play on their own and other students’ development. Peer support is therefore a priority focus for the team. Another of our key projects is to support student transition into university via our Step Up to HE programme.

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/student-experience-and-success-intranet/SitePages/Peer-Support.aspx

Student Experience and Success
Peer Support
Encouraging and enabling students to support each other and work together in their learning community is a key part of our approach to the student experience and to student success at Bradford.
We therefore offer a number of opportunities for peer support. All are based on best practice from the sector, are situated within a learning and teaching context and so are underpinned by relevant pedagogy and practice that fosters active learning and student empowerment, and are evaluated on an annual basis to determine impact and to ensure they remain beneficial to students.
Schemes primarily aim to support:
- Student transition into/through and engagement with university and study life
- The employability and development of students that lead the peer support
- A sense of community and belonging for students
Students are encouraged and supported to take ownership of the peer support schemes, with students working together to decide what to cover in the sessions. This approach offers a unique learning environment in that it is personalised and gives students informal opportunities, led by them, to work through needs, ideas and questions together.
Our schemes can offer support in a variety of contexts, such as at programme level for particular groups of students.
Peer support currently on offer includes:
- Peer Assisted Learning (PAL), including Peer Led Lectures (PLL) and Peer Support Sessions
- Peer Mentoring

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/health-safety-and-wellbeing-intranet/SitePages/Health,-Safety-&-Security---How-can-we-help-.aspx

Health and Safety
Health and Safety - Ask us anything?
Our team are available to provide you with advice and support to guide you through any health and safety related queries you may have.
Whether it be a question about producing a risk assessment or advice on a new piece of equipment, we have on campus or support in ensuring working practices meet regulatory requirements. Whatever your query our team are happy to assist you.
For Health and Safety related queries please contact healthandsafety@bradford.ac.uk or one of our advisors detailed below.
Health and Safety Advisors
- Anne-Marie Ullyott
  - Deputy Head of Health and Safety
  - Faculty of Health Studies
  - Faculty of Management, Law & Social Sciences
  - Professional Services
- Andrew Kurdziel
  - Health and Safety Advisor
  - Faculty of Life Sciences
  - Faculty of Management, Law & Social Sciences
  - Professional Services
- Stella Clark
  - Health and Safety Advisor
  - Faculty of Engineering & Informatics
  - Faculty of Management, Law & Social Sciences
  - Professional Services
- Laurie Wilson
  - Health and Safety Advisor
  - Property Services
  - Professional Services
  - Fire Safety
- Faris Lathief
  - Assistant Health and Safety Advisor
  - Faculty of Management, Law and Social Sciences
  - Student Safety

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/health-safety-and-wellbeing-intranet/SitePages/Health-&-Safety-Training.aspx

Health and Safety
Health and Safety Training
Our Health and Safety Advisors have created several training aids to assist you throughout your time on campus. The training aids include both mandatory and recommended learning and incorporate initial inductions through to bespoke health and safety related training.
We offer an extensive package of training to suit the requirements of on campus activities, further details can be found on our Health and Safety Training Courses page. To assist you further in deciding which training is most appropriate for you we also have created a training skills matrix for both Staff and Students, which provides a detailed list of both mandatory and recommended training. The team have also created a number of pre-recorded training presentations which provide introductory information or a refresher on a range of topics.
Our Health and Safety Advisors are also able to provide you with guidance regarding appropriate training.
Students can also find training aids on our Students page.
For further information also view our Health and Safety Policies, Guidance, Procedures pages.

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/timetabling-intranet/SitePages/Attendance_Info_for_Students.aspx

Timetabling, Attendance and Room Bookings
Attendance Information for Students
Remember to carry your student ID card for all taught sessions. Without it, you won’t be able to check in and may be marked absent.

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/timetabling-intranet/SitePages/Check-in.aspx

Timetabling, Attendance and Room Bookings
Student Engagement Guidance
Swiping Misconduct
Students should be aware that activities such as the below may constitute fraudulent behaviour under Ordinance 16 of the University and result in sanctions under the Student Disciplinary Procedure:
- Use, or possession, of your Student ID by an individual other than yourself.
- Swiping into classes and then leaving the session.
- Other activities designed to manipulate student attendance data.
How is student attendance recorded?
Taught Undergraduate & Postgraduate:
- The University provides you with a student card.
- Use this card to swipe into your timetabled sessions.
- Card readers are fixed near teaching room entrances (lecture theatres, labs, seminar rooms).
- Swipe your card to check in using your student ID.
- If you swipe your card more than 15 minutes too early or late, you will not receive a present mark.
- If you forget your card, you will not be able to sign in using a manual register. From September 2024, this will only be available for rooms without a scanner.
Research Students:
- There is a seperate process for PGRs. You can find information on this within the Student Engagement Guide.
- Specific information on engagement requirements can be found on the PGR sharepoint page.
Do you have an issue with your UB card?
If you have lost or damaged your card, or you don't get the green tick on the card reader when you swipe then please go to the MyBradford desk. They can issue you with a replacement card (this will incur a small replacement fee) or re-activate it if needed.
Do you need a copy of your attendance?
To obtain a copy of your attendance please email the relevant programme admin team for your faculty or the Student Engagement Officers.
- Engineering & Informatics: fedt-attendance@bradford.ac.uk
- Health Studies fhs-attendance@bradford.ac.uk
- Life Sciences fls-attendance@bradford.ac.uk
- Management & Law fml-attendance@bradford.ac.uk
- Social Sciences fss-attendance@bradford.ac.uk
- Student Engagement Officers studentengagementofficers@bradford.ac.uk
What happens if I don't attend?
Students are monitored using the Student Engagement Process. This is a three stage approach which aims to re-engage students and challenge low attendance.
Low attendance and engagement may lead to:
- Student withdrawal recommendations.
- UKVI student visas may lose sponsorship which affects graduate visa routes.
- Impact on student loans, fees, and other financial aspects..
Please review the Student Engagement policy and guide.
Professionally accredited programmes such as nursing, have specific guidance on attendance requirements. You can consult their programme handbook or programme team.
Placement Attendance is not recorded through the card swipe in machines on campus. Any absences or issues with attendance must be reported to the placement team. More guidance can be found here
Student support
- For queries relating to how attendance can affect student loans, fees, or other financial aspects of students' study contact the Student Life Services
- Student Life Services also provide support for students with disabilities, welfare, counselling and financial support.
- For queries relating to overseas students please contact the Visa Support Team on 01274 23 6900 or visasupport@bradford.ac.uk
Please note: Remember to carry your student ID card for all taught sessions. Without it, you won’t be able to check in and may be marked absent.

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/timetabling-intranet/SitePages/ReportingAbsence.aspx

Timetabling, Attendance and Room Bookings
Reporting Absence / Authorised Absence
Reporting Absences
You are expected to attend all scheduled teaching activities as shown on your academic timetable.
If you cannot attend several sessions due to unavoidable reasons (such as illness or emergencies), you may wish to notify your lecturer or module leader promptly.
To have your absence authorised you will need to complete the absence request form. You should carefully include the dates of absences, the reason and any evidence to support your request.
Not all absences will be approved as an authorised absence, therefore refer to the guidelines
. Keep in mind that authorised absences will still appear on the student’s attendance record as absences, and submitting the absence reporting form does not mean immediate approval.
If your absence extends over several weeks, we may advise you to consider suspending your studies instead.
Should you require further support or wish to discuss any barriers to your engagement with your course then please contact your Personal Academic Tutor or the Student Engagement Officers.
Reporting Absence Email Addresses:
- Engineering & Informatics fedt-attendance@bradford.ac.uk
- Health Studies fhs-attendance@bradford.ac.uk
- Life Sciences fls-attendance@bradford.ac.uk
- Management & Law fml-attendance@bradford.ac.uk
- Social Sciences fss-attendance@bradford.ac.uk

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/mybradford-intranet/SitePages/change-of-circumstances.aspx

MyBradford
MyBradford - change of circumstances
Change of Circumstances
Changing or transferring your course
First, you should discuss this with your Faculty, who will need to release you from your course. If you wish to change into a different Faculty, you will also have to speak to the admission tutor for the new course.
If you are accepted onto your new course, you will have to inform the Student Loan Company or your sponsor. Once your course transfer is agreed, we will also write to your funding body to finalise your transfer.
If you would like to change to a new course you will need to inform your Faculty by submitting your request via e:Vision:
1. Log onto e:Vision
2. Click on the Change of Circumstances link at the bottom.
3. In the drop down menu, select Programme change and click Next.
4. Follow the instructions on e:Vision to complete the process.
Please complete the Programme Transfer Agreement form.
Suspending your course
If you would like to suspend your course you should first discuss with your faculty why you want to suspend, as they may be able to help.
If you decide that you would like to suspend your course, you need to contact your personal academic tutor and after discussion with them please visit e:Vision:
1. Log onto e:Vision
2. Click on the Change of Circumstances link at the bottom.
3. In the drop down menu, select Suspend study.
4. Follow the instructions on e:Vision to complete the process.
Withdrawing from your course
If you would like to leave the University, you should first discuss with your present department why you want to leave, as they may be able to help.
If you decide that you would like to leave, you need to contact your personal academic tutor and after discussion with them please visit e:Vision:
1. Log onto e:Vision
2. Click on the Change of Circumstances link at the bottom.
3. In the drop down menu, select Withdrawal and click Next.
4. Follow the instructions on e:Vision to complete the process.
Extenuating Circumstances
During your studies, you might face exceptional circumstances which impact your ability to complete assessments and/or perform at your expected level. This might include, for example, serious illness or distressing personal issues (e.g. bereavement). It is important that you tell someone at the University as soon as you can about any such issues so you can get the advice and support you need.
If you feel that you have exceptional circumstances that may impact your performance and ability to complete assessments, please visit th Extenuating Circumstances page.

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/mybradford-intranet/SitePages/letters-transcripts-and-certificates.aspx

MyBradford
MyBradford - letters, transcripts, certificates and DBS ID checks
MyBradford Self-Portal letters - (via E-Vision)
Did you know? You can download the following letters from E-Vision:
- Confirmation of study
- Bank opening letter
These letters are official documents that can be used to support applications such as applying for a bus pass, confirming that you are a current student at the university, and will help if you are an international student and need to open a new bank account.
Council Tax
If you are a full-time student, you may qualify for council tax exemption. To notify the council of your student status and for more details on council tax exemption please visit the government website
Please note that the exemption starts from the start date of your programme until the end date. If you move in earlier, you will have to pay for that period.
The University will provide local authorities with a list of full-time undergraduate and postgraduate students who are resident within the following areas: Bradford, Calderdale, Kirklees and Leeds. If you are applying to Bradford Council, please wait to receive a bill from the council, then complete the online application on the council website. If you have any further queries regarding your council tax, please call the council direct on 01274 437715. The information contained in the listing will comply with the Data Protection Act.
You can also apply online if you live in the following areas:
- Calderdale
- Leeds
- Kirklees
If you live outside of the areas listed above, MyBradford can also provide you with a letter to support your application for council tax exemption.
If you have any further queries, you can email: mybradford@bradford.ac.uk or call 01274 236981.
Certificate and transcripts
An academic transcript is an official document which confirms your academic progress at the University.
For information on how to get a copy of your original transcript or certificate, visit the Alumni website (a charge will be made for this service).
eStore
Visit the estore to find out how to purchase an official transcript or certificate.
- Email estore@bradford.ac.uk
Verifications
If a third party needs to verify an award, this can be provided subject to the receipt of signed consent. A verification will include start and end dates, the award achieved, classification and date of award. Academic verifications are sent by email to the address provided.
Requests for graduates from 2003 onward should be emailed to MyBradford@bradford.ac.uk
Historic requests for those who graduated before 2003 should be emailed to awards@bradford.ac.uk
DBS ID checks for placements
You are required to complete a DBS check prior to starting the course and the DBS certificate must be issued well in advance of your first placement.
Please complete the online DBS application form as soon as you are asked to do so (look out for an email from dbs@bradford.disclosures.co.uk) and follow the steps below immediately after you have completed your application to verify the 3 pieces of identification used in your application.
Book an appointment to have your ID verified (only after you have completed the online form).

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/mybradford-intranet/SitePages/about-us.aspx

MyBradford
MyBradford - about us
Our mission is to provide a friendly, professional service to everyone which is focused on meeting the individual needs of each of our customers. Customers can access our services in-person at our MyBradford desks or via email or telephone.
We are here to offer you information, advice and guidance which will help you through your university journey at Bradford as a student and recent graduate. We are here to help you and aim to provide an immediate solution to your enquiry, and when we can’t help you directly, we will find the service or person at the University who can.
We are committed to providing excellent customer service whilst maintaining streamlined processes to make things easier for you.
How to contact us
We are available in the following locations
C87 in Richmond Atrium, and Floor 0 in Student Central
Opening times:
Monday to Friday, 08:30 to 16:30 (note: the service is closed 10:00 to 11:30 on the second Wednesday and last Wednesday of each month)
Email: mybradford@bradford.ac.uk
Telephone: +44 (0) 1274 236981
We also support our specialist services below and provide general information
- Counselling and Mental Health Service
- Disabilities Service
- Careers and Employability Service
- Student Success Service
- Financial Support
- Visa Support

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/mybradford-intranet/SitePages/additional-information.aspx

MyBradford
Additional information
Accommodation information
This service offers information and advice on the accommodation at the University of Bradford.
Find out more by visiting our Accommodation website.
Unipol
Unipol helps students find the best housing they can, to drive up standards in the private rented sector and be a beacon of good practice for other housing suppliers.
You can visit Unipol in one of the Information pods in student central.
- Email info@unipol.bradford.ac.uk
- Phone: +44 (0) 1274 235899.
Find out more from the Unipol website.
Enrolment information
New students
To find out more, visit the Enrolment website.
After you have enrolled, MyBradford can provide you with any supporting letters that you may require along with other useful information.
We are here to support and guide you through your student journey whilst you are studying at the university.
Continuing students
Continuing students will need to re-enrol each year. Re-enrolment is the formal update of your personal information and reaffirms your wish to study with the University for another year.
Financial advice
If you need help with managing money, including your student loan, studentship, sponsorship or your own income, see below
- Department: Student Life Team
- Location: Student Central, City Campus
- Email: money@bradford.ac.uk
- Telephone: +44 (0) 1274 23 3218
Graduation ceremonies
Graduation ceremonies usually take place in July and December.
To find out more about what happens on the day and what you need to do before your ceremony, visit the Graduation Ceremonies website.
Department: Awards team
- Location: Richmond Building
- Web: www.bradford.ac.uk/graduation
- Email: graduationceremonies@bradford.ac.uk
- Telephone: + 01274 233302
Imprint and Design
Imprint and Design, based at the City Campus, offer a range of student printing and design services:
- Thesis and dissertation.
- Undergraduate coursework and reports.
- Large format printing.
- Flyers and event promotion.
- Presentation materials.
Opportunities Abroad
We can offer information around studying abroad.
Visit the Opportunities Abroad page to find out more.

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/health-safety-and-wellbeing-intranet/SitePages/Security.aspx

Health and Safety
Security
To ensure your safety and security whilst on campus we have a dedicated SIA approved security team who can provide both security and first aid assistance.
The Security team are on Campus 24 hours per day and conduct regular patrols of all areas of campus throughout the day and night. Should you have any concerns regarding suspicious persons or security related incidents please contact our team who will be happy to assist with your enquiry.
For your protection, our campus has an extensive system of CCTV cameras, intruder alarms and access controls your safety and security.
To support our Security team, we also have a dedicated Higher Education Police Liaison Officer deployed at the University from West Yorkshire Police.
Security staff can be contacted by telephoning:
- General Enquiries + 44 (0)1274 236999 from a mobile or external telephone, or 6999 from an internal telephone.
- Emergencies + 44 (0)1274 238 888 from a mobile or external telephone, or 8888 from an internal telephone.
- Richmond Reception: Mon-Fri 08:30 - 17:30, + 44 (0)1274 234 894 from a mobile or external telephone, or 4894 from an internal telephone.
Crime related incidents can also be reported via ServiceNow using our Accidents, Incidents or Near Misses form. You can also report a security related crime by contacting our Security Team direct or by requesting a University member of Staff to report this on your behalf via ServiceNow.
Access to our campus is also controlled via an Access Control system, Staff and Students are provided with smart ID cards to enable them access via the smart card readers situated throughout campus.
In addition to our extensive security systems and patrols we also encourage you to download our SafeZone app which makes it easier for you to alert the on campus Security team.

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/it-services-intranet/SitePages/mobile-security-advice-for-students.aspx

IT Services
Mobile security advice for students
Important
- Use a PIN or password to lock your device.
- If your device has a SIM inside you should also set a SIM lock. This is an additional 4 digit pin that controls usage of the SIM card independent of the device which prevents thieves from putting the SIM in another unlocked device to make calls on your account.
- Ensure your important data is backed up somewhere, such as a PC or in the cloud.
- If you have an Android device it is recommended that you install reputable anti-virus software on your device.
- If you have an Android device make sure it is set up with the Android device manager. This will enable you to remotely locate or wipe the device if it is lost or stolen.
- iOS users can do the same with iCloud and 'Find My iPhone' to track, lock and wipe devices.
- Always use a strong password for your app store account. These passwords are high value due to them usually being linked to an account with credit card details. Try to use a password that is at least 8 characters, and contains upper case, lower case, numbers, special characters such as punctuation and doesn't contain a word found in the dictionary.
- Security mark your device with an ultraviolet pen.
- Thieves operate on campus. Do not leave your valuables unattended for even a short time.
- Be aware of your surroundings when using your mobile device. If you are off campus and feel threatened you can go to one of the student safe spots for help.
- If the worst happens and your device is lost or stolen, wipe it and report it to your mobile phone network and the police as soon as you can.

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/placements-office/SitePages/about.aspx

Placements Office
About the Placements Administration Team
We are responsible for placements across the whole University. The team deal with over 6000 placements a year ranging from formal placements, to work based learning to sandwich years from a variety of courses such as Nursing, Pharmacy, Engineering, Social Work, Management and Law.
We are based in Horton A 1.13, University of Bradford Richmond Road, Bradford, BD7 1DP.
The office's opening hours are currently 10:00 to 16:00 Monday to Friday.
Office telephone number: 01274 232578.
You can email us at:
- Health placements: foh-placements@bradford.ac.uk
- Life Sciences placements: fls-placements@bradford.ac.uk
- Social Sciences placements: fss-placements@bradford.ac.uk
- Engineering and Informatics placements: ei-placements@bradford.ac.uk
- Management and Law placements: foml-placements@bradford.ac.uk

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/health-safety-and-wellbeing-intranet/SitePages/Asbestos.aspx

Health and Safety
Asbestos
Asbestos is a naturally occurring silicate fibrous material and although a popular building product in the past, the use and disposal of such materials is now heavily legislated.
Although present in small amounts, asbestos can be found within the infrastructure throughout campus and we maintain an extensive database of all known sources of asbestos.
Our team work in conjunction with colleagues in the Property & Campus Services Team to ensure that all asbestos related hazards have been assessed prior to the commencement of any scheduled works.
If you require an asbestos survey to be carried out by our team please complete the Asbestos Survey Request Form on ServiceNow
If you discover any damage to the building infrastructure this should be reported immediately to either the Property & Campus Services Team or Health and Safety Team on +44 (0)1274 236057 or email healthandsafety@bradford.ac.uk
For further information also view our Health and Safety Policies, Guidance and Procedures pages.

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/language-centre-intranet/SitePages/Information-on-each-section-of-the-BASALT.aspx

Language Centre
Information on BASALT
Part 1 - Reading
- Reading 1 - Detailed reading
  - Duration: 40-45 minutes
  - Input: 1 text of 3-4 pages from a textbook or other source aimed at the general academic reader
  - Question Types:
    - Multiple choice
    - Short answer
    - Gap fill
  - Purpose: To test your ability to understand the key ideas and their supporting details in a text of general academic interest.
- Reading 2 - Skimming
  - Duration: 20 minutes
  - Input: 1 text of 3-4 pages from a textbook or other source aimed at the general academic reader
  - Question Types:
    - Matching 7-9 paragraph summaries with paragraphs
    - There are the same number of paragraph summaries and questions (no extras)
  - Purpose: To test your ability to read an academic text quickly to locate the main topics or sub-topics and understand their relationship.
Part 2 - Listening
- Duration: 10-13 minutes
- Input: A structured semi-authentic academic lecture on a topic of general academic interest
- Question Types:
  - Part 1: Completing a set of student lecture notes from the first half
  - Part 2: Taking notes on key ideas from the second half and answering open-ended questions
- Purpose:
  - Identify relevant details from a lecture (statistics or short information)
  - Identify the main ideas of a lecture
- Note: 3 minutes preparation time before the lecture and 15 minutes for answering/checking after.
Part 3 - Writing
- Duration: 65 minutes (15 minutes compulsory planning + 50 minutes writing)
- Question Types:
  - Two paragraphs (total 250-300 words)
  - No fixed essay formula, focus on using academic writing styles (problems, solutions, causes, effects, similarities, differences)
  - A list of ideas is provided (optional to use)
- Purpose:
  - Test ability to construct and develop coherent, logical ideas relevant to the question
  - Test accurate and appropriate language use
Part 4 - Speaking
- Duration:
  - 2 people: 6 minutes
  - 3 people: 9 minutes
  - 4 people: 12 minutes
- Question Types:
  - A question or set of questions on a topic of general academic interest
  - A list of ideas is provided (optional to use)
  - 5 minutes to prepare
- Purpose:
  - Test ability to express and develop coherent ideas logically
  - Test ability to interact with others in a seminar situation

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/career-and-employability-services-intranet/SitePages/Exploring-your-options.aspx

Career and Employability Services
Exploring your options
It's never to early to start researching your career plans, and the menu below is designed to give you an insight into your range of options beyond university whether you are a first year or a graduate.
With the information here you can get inspiration from other students and graduates' stories, get an insight into the job market at home and abroad, consider further study and more...
Options with your degree
First of all, if you're thinking about your options, come and have a chat with us! Our professionally-qualified career consultants are here to offer you advice and guidance about the options open to you after graduation. If you are no longer in Bradford, we also offer appointments via email, Skype and telephone, and don't forget, you can access our services for up to five years after you finish your studies.
For online research, the Prospects website's 'What can I do with my degree?' section is a good starting point to help you generate ideas about future career paths.
It may also be useful to look at what previous graduates from your course and faculty have gone on to, this is know as the Graduate Labour Market.

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/career-and-employability-services-intranet/SitePages/Graduate-Labour-Market-Information.aspx

Career and Employability Services
Graduate Labour Market Information
A knowledge of the labour market can help you answer questions such as:
- What jobs are out there?
- Who are the main employers in your field?
- What jobs are likely to be on the increase and where are they?
- Which areas of work are easier to get into?
- What skills do you need for now and the future?
Understanding what is going on with jobs and employers is called labour market information intelligence
The labour market
The labour market is constantly changing and evolving as a wide range of factors can have an effect on each industry and town or city, such as:
- new technologies (for example the automation of tasks)
- infrastructure (e.g. the HS2 rail link)
- politics and government policies (such as the UK leaving the EU)
- the ageing population (creating opportunities in care, plus the need for replacement of retiring workers)
- skills shortages in certain roles.
Also bear in mind that some industries are quite localised to a certain region, for example many banking and finance organisations have centres in London or Leeds.
Researching the industry you are interested in and being realistic about whether you are prepared to travel and relocate for work can help to focus in on suitable employers for your graduate career.
Below is more information about employment in the Bradford and the Leeds City region, plus further reading on researching the labour market to help with your career plans.
Graduate job options
If you are looking for graduate-level employment after graduation, these jobs generally fall into two categories:
1. Graduate training schemes: where organisations specifically recruit graduates straight from university, and recruitment usually begins in the autumn term of your final year. Graduate schemes typically offer a structured career path, training and development and a good starting salary. These are highly competitive and can have a rigorous application process, including assessment centres selection tests. Many graduate schemes require you to be prepared to move around the country (or even internationally) to experience different departments of the organisation as part of your training.
2. Direct job entry: graduate jobs require a degree from the start, either because the degree gives you the specific knowledge and qualifications to perform the role, or because employers value the skills and experience gained from a university education. You will be expected to learn on the job, and there may be less formal training than with a graduate scheme. These roles are generally widely advertised on job sites and in the press, usually with a timescale of around four weeks, and are not restricted to recent graduates. The starting salary may be lower than with a graduate scheme, but it is likely it will rise as you progress and gain experience.
Graduate schemes are more popular in certain industries, such as engineering and finance - a quick online search will give you an idea of what programmes are available in your subject area
About Bradford
Bradford is one city covering four towns - Shipley, Keighley, Bingley and Bradford. Within the four towns are 70 neighbourhoods and over half a million people. There are 15,000 businesses and an economy worth £8.3 billion, which is the 11th largest in the UK. Bradford is placed fifth for manufacturing and has branded itself the Producer City.
In Bradford, the biggest employers are the City Of Bradford Metropolitan District Council, the University of Bradford, Bradford College and the NHS, which together employ around a third of the workforce.
Morrisons also employ around 5000 people in Bradford, including at its headquarters in Thornbury.
The largest single sector is retail which employs 1 in 10 workers, and the opening of the Broadway retail and leisure development in November 2015 has added an estimated 2500 jobs in this area.
Note: The bigger the employer, the more opportunities on offer and increased chances that a job might come up.
Key companies in Bradford
- Yorkshire Building Society
- Morrisons
- UKAR
- DENSO
- KONE
- Hallmark
- Sonoco
- BorgWarner
- OTTO
- Gordons LLP
- Kelda Water
- BASF
- Echostar
- Provident Finance Group
- Ecology Building Society
- Damart
- JCT 600
- Mumtaz
- NG Bailey
- Princes
- Arris
- Santander
Many of these companies have offered job opportunities for Bradford graduates so are well worth investigating.
There are also some smaller Bradford-based companies that are worth considering, including:
- Radio Design based in Shipley, they were nominated for a Queens award for engineering innovation in 2011.
- Emerald leading independent publishers of global research based in Bingley and with offices worldwide.
- Knightsbridge Furniture
- Klinger sealing products for oil, gas, chemical industries
- Seabrook Crisps
Smaller organisations like these are more likely to offer direct-entry roles rather than graduate schemes.

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/career-and-employability-services-intranet/SitePages/Graduate-jobs.aspx

Career and Employability Services
Graduate jobs
Lots of graduate job opportunities are advertised from the autumn of your final year for programmes that begin in the summer, so it's important to plan ahead to make sure you are maximising your chances of success in finding a role you're happy with. However, many graduate schemes accept graduates one or two years after finishing and there are other routes into graduate-level employment.
Types of graduate employment
- Graduate jobs are those which usually require a degree from the start, either because the degree gives you the specific knowledge and qualifications to do a job, or because employers value the skills and experience gained from a university education.
- Graduate schemes are training programmes over a set period, usually one to two years, which offer work experience and training within a company with the opportunity for ongoing employment afterwards (providing you pass the training).
- Internships offer work experience and training but unlike graduate schemes do not necessarily end in a formal job offer. However, they can be a good way to improve your employability skills and find out whether a job is right for you without signing up for a long period of time. Be aware that some internships are unpaid; think carefully about applying for these. See more on the law on unpaid internships on TARGETjobs.
Below is a range of sources for job opportunities arranged by sector and your faculty. Please feel free to come and see us to find out more.
Getting started
There's a few things you can do to begin your search
- Take a look at our jobs database
- You can book an appointment with us to talk about your options
- Check out our Facebook page for our Monday's Graduate Jobs & News
Job search websites
General websites (all subjects)
- Adzuna
- Agency Central (recruitment agencies)
- All-Acad.com - Jobs for academics
- Civil Service
- CV Library
- EURES – The European Job Mobility Portal
- Find a job (Job centre / UK government site)
- For Purpose Jobs (environmental, sustainability and social impact jobs)
- Guardian Jobs
- Glassdoor
- Handshake Career Centre
- Indeed
- Jobted
- Jobteaser
- Knowledge Transfer Partnerships (KTP)
- LinkedIn
- Local and regional press, e.g. Yorkshire Post, Telegraph and Argus
- Magnet.me
- Reed
- Totaljobs
Graduate-focused sites:
- All About Careers
- Bright Network
- Careermap
- Debut
- Graduate Recruitment Bureau
- GraduateJobs.Com
- Graduateland
- Highered
- Milkround
- Prospects
- TARGETjobs
- The Times Top 100 Graduate Employers
- Yorkshire Graduates
- Jobs Go Public
Researching your career
As well as searching via job websites, looking at Labour Market Information (LMI) can help you make realistic plans for your career by giving you a better understanding of what kinds of jobs are available and where they are.
You can also search for businesses and organisations by location and sector using resources such as Kompass, and Crunchbase is a platform for finding business information about private and public companies.

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: http://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/student-life-service-intranet/SitePages/Financial-Support.aspx

Student Life and Wellbeing Services
Student Life Team
Contact us
Request support online
money@bradford.ac.uk
supportandguidance@bradford.ac.uk
Tel: 01274 233218
Daily Drop-In (no need to book)
We hold a daily drop-in on a Monday to Friday at the MyBradford Desk in Student Central between 10:00am and 3:00pm.

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: http://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/registry-and-student-admin-intranet/SitePages/Programme-Administration-Teams.aspx

Registry and Student Administration
Undergraduate and Postgraduate Taught Courses
Programme Administration Teams support the delivery of your courses, ensuring that relevant administrative processes are managed correctly and helping to resolve problems. We primarily manage:
- Enrolling students on the correct modules for their programme of study.
- Processing and release of results to students.
- Processing applications for changes to modules, programmes or modes of study.
- Processing applications for extensions or extenuating circumstances.
- Ensuring access to assignment submission points on Canvas.
- Servicing Boards of Examiners and Assessment Committees.
Semester Dates 2024/5
You must ensure you are available for classes, or assessments, on these dates:
Semester Dates
- Semester 1
  - Teaching weeks: Monday 23 September 2024 – Friday 13 December 2024
  - Exam period: Monday 6 January 2025 – Friday 17 January 2025
- Semester 2
  - Teaching weeks: Monday 20 January 2025 – Friday 11 April 2025
  - Exam period: Monday 28 April 2025 – Friday 9 May 2025
- Semester 3 (For applicable courses only)
  - Teaching weeks: Monday 19 May 2025 – Friday 8 August 2025
  - Exam period: Monday 11 August 2025 – Friday 22 August 2025
- Supplementary Assessment
  - Teaching weeks: Not applicable
  - Exam period: Monday 21 July 2025 – Friday 1 August 2025
  - Note: This period includes reassessments for Extenuating Circumstances, failed modules, and coursework resubmissions.
If you believe you will need to be absent from classes during Teaching Weeks you should follow the Absence Reporting guidance.
If you believe you will need to be absent during an Exam Period you should speak to your PAT as soon as possible. You may need to apply for extenuating circumstances if you will miss an examination, however there are only limited situations in which this can be approved.
Changes to optional modules
Where your programme contains optional modules, you may opt to make changes to these, but you must do so by the relevant deadline.
These deadlines are set to ensure you have not missed too much teaching on your new module, and are in a position to be able to catch up. These deadlines are dependent on when your module is running:
- SEM1 or ACYR: Friday 4th October 2024 at 12: 00 noon.
- SEM2, NSYR or FLYR: Friday 31st January 2025 at 12: 00 noon.
- SEM3: Friday 30th May 2025 at 12: 00 noon.
Boards of Examiners and Results Release 2024/5
Once assessments have taken place these must be marked, undergo second consideration by another member of staff, and review by the relevant External Examiner.
Once this has taken place, module results go to the relevant Assessment Committees for review.
Finally, Boards of Examiners confirm an overall decision on a student's award, or progression to the next stage of study. As such, release and approval of results often takes a number of weeks.
Key release dates for the 2024/5 academic year are below. Results will be released on or before these dates:
- 2023/4 Academic year results (Taught Postgraduate Students finishing in September 2024): Monday 18th November 2024, by 17: 00.
- 2024/5 Semester 1 module marks: Monday 10th March 2025, by 17: 00.
- 2024/5 Academic year results (Final Year Undergraduate Students): Tuesday 1st July 2024, by 12: 00 noon.
- 2024/5 Academic year results (Non-finalist Undergraduate Students): Thursday 3rd July 2024, by 12: 00 noon.
- 2024/5 Academic year results (Nursing Programmes starting in September): TBC - Late July/Early August 2025
- 2024/5 Academic year results (Midwifery Programmes starting in September): TBC - Late August/First week of September 2025
- 2024/5 Supplementary assessment results: Thursday 4th September 2025, by 17: 00.
If you are unsure when you may receive your results please contact us.
Contact your Programme Administration Team
During January Enrolment,Monday 13th January until Friday 17th January, Programme Administration teams will be available in the Norcroft Lounge from 09:00 - 16:00.
During Semester 1 exams, and from Monday 20th January until Friday 11th April drop-in appointments will then be available at MyBradford in the Richmond Building Details of these drop-in times are below, in addition to contact emails for all teams.
- Faculty of Engineering and Digital Technologies
MyBradford Dropin:
Tuesdays 09:00 - 11:00
Thursdays 14:00 - 16:00
Email: fedt-prog-admin@bradford.ac.uk
- Faculty of Health Studies
MyBradford Dropin:
Tuesdays 14:00 - 16:00
Thursdays 09:00 - 11:00
Email: fhs-prog-admin@bradford.ac.uk
- Faculty of Life Sciences
MyBradford Dropin:
Wednesdays 09:00 - 11:00
Fridays 14:00 - 16:00
Email: fls-prog-admin@bradford.ac.uk
- Faculty of Management, Law and Social Sciences
MyBradford Dropin:
Mondays 12:00 - 14:00
Tuesdays 12:00 - 14:00
Thursdays 12:00 - 14:00
Fridays 09:00 - 11:00
Email:
- School of Management and School of Law: fml-prog-admin@bradford.ac.uk
- School of Social Sciences: fss-prog-admin@bradford.ac.uk
Programme administration teams can also be contacted by telephone on 01274 238124

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: http://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/registry-and-student-admin-intranet/SitePages/Programme-Administration-FAQa.aspx

Registry and Student Administration
Programme Administration
Programme Administration - frequently asked questions
I want to know how to contact a Programme Leader
To find a Programme Leader you can:
- Check your Programme Handbook on Canvas (if you need your current Programme Leader)
- Contact your Faculty's Programme Administration Team by email
- Ask staff at MyBradford
If you want to change programmes, remember you need to get approval from the leader of the programme you want to change onto.
I want to change my programme
If you are considering changing your Programme, it is important to first of all consult your Personal Academic Tutor (PAT). They will be able to give you initial guidance.
You should also then discuss the possibility with the Programme Leader of the programme you would like to move onto to understand what is, and isn't, possible.
You should be aware that:
- It is not always possible to change programme, there are specific entry requirements for many programmes that anyone wishing to study it must meet.
- If you wish to change your programme during the current Academic Year, you will need to make your request (with Programme Leader approval) before the end of the first week of teaching. If not, you will have missed too much of the course to be able to change now and will have to start your new programme in the next Academic Year.
- Please be aware that, even where a request is submitted within the first week of teaching, there is no guarantee it will be possible to change during the current year.
- If you are studying an Undergraduate course, and have completed one or more stages of study, you should be aware that in most cases you will need to restart in Stage 1 of a new programme and should consider the funding implications if you choose to do this.
- If you are studying on a Student Visa you must make sure to speak to the Visa Support Team as changing your programme may have implications for your visa sponsorship.
Further information, and the relevant forms, are available here: Transfers, Suspensions and Withdrawals (sharepoint.com)
I want to change one of my modules
Some modules are compulsory, and you will not be able to make changes to them. Some modules are optional, and you will be able to select from a number of different options - if you have already made a selection on e:Vision, and now wish to change this, you should e-mail your Faculty Programme Administration Team. 
Please be aware that there are deadlines to make changes and no changes may be made after these dates. In addition, some modules may not have sufficient space to accommodate additional students.
If you have not yet selected your modules on e:Vision you should make sure to sign in and make a selection as soon as possible. If you are struggling, or experiencing problems doing this, you should either email your Faculty Programme Administration Team (including a screenshot of your problem) or attend a drop-in at MyBradford with your Faculty Team.
I want to check which modules I am currently enrolled on
To check which modules you are currently enrolled on, you should sign in to e:Vision and go to the 'Modules and Enrolments' page from the menu. This will show you a list of your enrolled modules.
Normally, Taught Postgraduate students should have a total of 180 credits, including their Dissertation module. Undergraduate students normally study 120 credits per year.
Please note: Students starting a Taught Postgraduate Programme in January will not have their final semester's (September - December) modules shown on their record initially. These will be added later in the year, and you will receive an email if you need to select any optional modules.
Do I have to select optional modules?
If your programme includes optional modules to select then, following the instructions on e:Vision, you must select the correct number of credits from the available options. If you fail to do so then you risk not completing enough credits and being unable to graduate.
Please note: Not all programmes include optional modules. If your programme does not include optional modules, you will be automatically enrolled on all required compulsory modules and will not be asked to complete selections on e:Vision.
If you are unsure which modules you should be studying, you can find this information in your Programme Handbook on Canvas. You can check the modules you are enrolled on via e:Vision
If you believe there is an error in the modules you are enrolled on, you must contact your Faculty Programme Administration Team by email as soon as possible to resolve this.
What does my Board of Examiners Decision mean?
See the guide to Boards of Examiners for result release dates and what different decisions mean.
If you have read this and are still unclear, please email your Faculty Programme Administration Team or attend one of our Results Clinics.
What happens if I have not paid my tuition fees?
Students who do not pay tuition fees by agreed deadlines are contacted by the University's Credit Control Team to request payment. Students who do not resolve this may have access to University systems removed, or be suspended from their studies. More information on these processes can be found on our Composite Fee Debt pages.

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: http://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/student-casework-intranet/SitePages/Attendance-Misconduct.aspx

Student Casework
Attendance Misconduct
What is attendance misconduct
Attendance misconduct is the term that we use to describe any misconduct in relation to attendance of academic sessions such as lectures, seminars etc. particularly in relation to swiping in and not attending the session.
Attendance misconduct includes:
- Swiping in but then leaving immediately or after a short period (often referred to as "swipe and run");
- Using other people's cards to swipe them in even though they are not attending the lecture; and
- Asking others to swipe you in even though you are not attending the lecture.
These matters all constitute unacceptable conduct in accordance with Ordinance 16: Conduct of Student Members of the University, which sets out examples of unacceptable conduct under the paragraphs 3.12 (behaviour that uses dishonesty) and 3.20 (failure to comply with a reasonable request or instruction).
What do we expect from students?
The University expects that students will attend all their timetabled sessions and will swipe into each session themselves. This is made clear in a number of different areas including in the Student Handbook which states:
As a University of Bradford student, you are expected to attend all scheduled learning activities, and submit all assessed work in line with the timescales published by your programme. The University is committed to supporting students in maximising their academic achievements. Part of this commitment is met by monitoring student attendance and engagement as outlined in the Student Attendance and Engagement Policy.
Students should also be made aware of the University’s attendance requirements through programme handbooks and in initial briefings, introductory lectures and other face to face interactions at the beginning of each academic year.
About the process
Attendance Misconduct Process is intended to provide a simple means of dealing with the types of misconduct set out above. Cases are dealt with in a set manner under the Student Disciplinary Policy in an escalating process.
The process doesn't prevent a School from having their own internal process e.g. if it members of staff wish to give a student a verbal warning prior to invoking the Student Disciplinary Procedure. In such cases, a note should be added to the student’s e:Vision record by the member of staff.
Following any informal School-specific arrangements, the following process should be used:
1. The first time a case is reported, the student will be issued with an informal warning at Stage One of the Student Disciplinary Procedure;
2. The second time a student is reported, the matter will be investigated at Stage Two Procedure. If the student is found to have committed attendance misconduct, the standard outcome will be a formal warning;
3. The third case will result in a further investigation. If the student is found to have committed attendance misconduct for a third time, the standard outcome will be escalation to a Panel Hearing under Stage Three of the Procedure which could result in the suspension or expulsion of the student.

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: http://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/timetabling-intranet/SitePages/STA_Student_Attendance.aspx

Timetabling, Attendance and Room Bookings
Student Engagement & Attendance
Attendance Reports
PATs, Programme and Module Leaders receive a weekly report via email containing links to a database of student attendance - for more information on this please visit the Weekly Reports page.
Office for Students Info
The University is required to continue to make regular reports about its activities to the Office for Students (OfS), the Home Office, professional bodies that accredit our programmes and graduates, the Higher Education Statistics Agency (HESA), the NHS, and the Student Loans Company. Monitoring attendance allows us to complete these reports.
How is student attendance recorded?
Undergraduate & Postgraduate Taught:
- The University provides the student with a student card.
- The student swipes into their timetabled sessions.
- Card readers are fixed near teaching room entrances (lecture theatres, labs, seminar rooms).
- If a student swipes their card more 15 minutes early or late, they will not receive a present mark.
- From September 2024, students will not be able to sign in using a manual register if they forget their card. Manual register marks should only be collected in rooms without a Tacim scanner.
Research Students:
- Specific information on engagement requirements can be found on the PGR sharepoint page.
If the room you are teaching in doesn't have a card reader then please use a manual register.
Paper Check In Form
Please download the form, take it with you, and complete before the end of your teaching session.
It should then be returned to the Programme Admin Team at the end of the teaching day - EDT, FMLSS & FLS in Richmond C21, or FHS in Horton A1.07, where the relevant team will update the attendance for that session.
Swiping Misconduct
Students should be aware that activities such as the below may constitute fraudulent behaviour under Ordinance 16 of the University and result in sanctions under Attendance Misconduct:
- Swiping in but then leaving immediately or after a short period (often referred to as "swipe and run");
- Using other people's cards to swipe them in even though they are not attending the lecture; and
- Asking others to swipe you in even though you are not attending the lecture.
What happens if a student has low engagement?
Students are monitored using the Student Engagement Process. This is a three stage approach which aims to re-engage students and challenge low attendance.
Stage 1 letters are sent out via the Student Engagement team. PATs should then contact students at Stage 1 and discuss their attendance. This must be recorded in Contact Notes on E:Vision for auit purposes. PATs and Programme Teams are able to escalate students to stage 2 when serious concerns arise.
Low attendance and engagement may lead to:
- Student withdrawal recommendations.
- UKVI student visas may lose sponsorship which affects graduate visa routes.
- Impact on student loans, fees, and other financial aspects.
Professionally accredited programmes such as nursing, have specific guidance on attendance requirements. Students can consult their programme handbook or programme team.
Placement Attendance is not recorded through the card swipe in machines on campus. Any absences or issues with attendance must be reported to the placement team.
Student support
Alongside the pressures that students may experience with their studies, students may be dealing with financial, family or personal difficulties.
The University offers various kinds of support including a counselling service, support for students with disabilities, financial and visa advice.
Students can be directed to the Student Life & Wellbeing Services page on the Sharepoint which details the different ways they can get support.

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/registry-and-student-admin-intranet/SitePages/Enrolment-and-Welcome-Team.aspx

Registry and Student Administration
Enrolment and Welcome Team
We coordinate registration processes for new and returning students.
This includes:
- setting up registration sites and installing relevant signage to help students find their way
- participating in Welcome Week activities and providing a point of contact for face-to-face enquiries
- supporting maintenance and development of systems and processes for enrolment and ensuring that the student record is accurate 
- keeping the Student Handbook up to date

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/registry-and-student-admin-intranet/SitePages/Fees-and-Finance-Team(1).aspx

Registry and Student Administration
Fees and Finance Team
Our mission is to support you by managing any tuition fees or scholarships attached to your account. We are here to help you understand and navigate your tuition fees, explain fee charges, and support you through the scholarship process.
1. Scholarships
We offer a variety of scholarship opportunities to support students in achieving their educational goals. Our team assists in the application process and provides guidance on eligibility and other essential criteria.
Our scholarships can be defined by either applied for or automatically applied. Our applied for scholarships require a written application, whereas our automatically applied for scholarships are based on a set of pre-defined criteria and are applied once you enrol at the University.
You are strongly encouraged to visit our scholarships webpage link where you will get more of an insight into the type of bursaries and scholarships the University offers.
2. Tuition Fees
It is important that you understand your tuition fee charges as they’re often the most considerable outgoing that you will be faced with whilst at University. The fees team provide invoices to each student and are available to explain fee charges if there is any uncertainty. Should you suspend your study or withdraw, the fees team will make the respective changes to your tuition fees, ensuring that they are accurate and compliant with the University’s Fee Liability Policy.
How to Contact Us
Our team is here to help! Whether you have questions about your tuition fees or need assistance with scholarship applications feel free to reach out to us.
Fees Team: sas-fees@bradford.ac.uk
Scholarships Team: scholarships@bradford.ac.uk
Bursaries Team: bursaries@bradford.ac.uk

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/campusconnect-intranet/SitePages/Student-Support-Services.aspx

CampusConnect
Student Support Services
We have a dedicated team of staff, with a wealth of experience and understanding to help you access the support services you need to make the most of your University experience and be a success.
View more information in the Student Support SharePoint area.
MyBradford: Student Support Service
You'll have access to:
- Disability Service
- Counselling and Mental Health Service
- Career and Employability Services
- Students’ Union
- Chaplaincy and faith advisers
- On-campus nursery
- Halls wardens at The Green
Opening hours
- Mon-Fri 8:30 – 16:30
- Closed every other Wednesday from 10:00 – 11:30
Contact MyBradford
- Email: mybradford@bradford.ac.uk
- Telephone: +44(0)1274 236981
Our services
- Providing responses to queries and giving information and basic advice, support and guidance.
- Booking one to one appointments with specialist support and services where appropriate
- Council Tax exemption enquiries
- DBS ID checks
- Student confirmation/registration letters, such as bank and visa letters
- Staff and student ID cards
- Enquiries regarding changes to the student record, change of circumstances, applications for submission extensions, and extenuating circumstancesCampus and city information
- Assistance from the International Student Advisor
- Programme, study and enrolment support
- Award ceremony information
- Copy and/or replacement certificate and transcript requests
- Certifying University-produced documents
Student Life Team
The Student Life Team provides a variety of services for students who find themselves in need of additional support whilst at University. We provide initial advice on issues which may be affecting your general welfare.
If you are not sure who to ask for advice, or you just need to talk to someone in a quiet and confidential space, we’re here.
Examples of support could be:
- Applications to our Student Support Fund in times of financial difficulty (we cannot fund tuition fees)
- Advice and guidance in relation to student finance issues
- Support with difficult situations which arise from everyday life
- Referrals on to external and internal services
- Support with accommodation issues
- Learning to cook
- Budgeting
Get in touch
- Email: supportandguidance@bradford.ac.uk money@bradford.ac.uk
- Telephone: 01274 236504
Disability support
The Disability Service is part of Student and Academic Services. They provide information, advice and guidance whether you are an applicant, current or international disabled student.
Disability can mean different things to different people. By the term ‘disabled students’ we mean any student with:
- specific learning difficulties such as dyslexia, dyspraxia and dyscalculia
- autism
- a long term health condition
- a physical or sensory impairment
The Disability Service's contact details are:
- E-mail: disabilities@bradford.ac.uk
- Telephone: 01274 233739
Interfaith Chaplaincy
Tolerance and respect for religions and beliefs are important at the University of Bradford. The city has places of worship for most faiths and religions and many of these are close to our campus.
The Interfaith Chaplaincy team represent various faith groups and provide spiritual support and pastoral care for staff and students of all faiths and none.
You can contact us via email before, during or after your time at the University.
Counselling, mental health and wellbeing
Our Counselling and Mental Health Service provides a free and confidential service to all students and staff of the University of Bradford and students of Bradford College. In addition to one-to-one appointments, we offer a range of support including self-help materials and wellbeing workshops.
We are completely independent of your academic studies or workplace and do not share information with staff in these areas without consent.
Most appointments are by telephone, video conference or email. We offer a limited number of face-to-face appointments in Student Central, 08:30-16:30, Monday to Friday. Reception is open 9:00-16:30.
Contact the Counselling and Mental Health Service:
- Email: Counselling
- Email: Mental Health advice
- Call: 01274 235750
- Register online to see a counsellor or a mental health advisor

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/student-casework-intranet/SitePages/What-happens-when-the-University-agrees-to-settle-on-my-complaint-.aspx

Student Casework
What happens when the University agrees to settle on my complaint?
What happens when the University agrees to settle on my complaint?
When your complaint is successful, we will look to see how we can put things right for you. This may mean we offer you an apology, we review or change our procedures or offer you a compensation payment or a tuition fee refund. If we offer you a compensation payment or tuition fee refund, we will normally ask you to sign a Settlement Letter, to confirm that you accept our offer as a resolution to your complaint.
Sometimes, we recognise that what we have done wrong has resulted in a more serious impact and in these cases, we may offer a more substantial compensation payment or tuition fee refund. If this is the case, we will normally ask you to sign a legal document called a Settlement Agreement.
Please see our Frequently Asked Questions below for further guidance.
Why am I being asked to sign a Settlement Agreement?
If what we have done wrong has resulted in a more serious impact, we will normally ask students to sign a Settlement Agreement. We look carefully at each complaint to determine whether a Settlement Agreement is appropriate. Please see the list below for some examples of instances when we may send a student a Settlement Agreement:
- Compensation payments or tuition fee refunds with a value greater than £10,000
- Cases of any type of discrimination, for example harassment, bullying or sexual misconduct
- Failure to support a student’s needs as a disabled student
- Failure to educate
- The student has already taken legal advice
- Issues relating to consumer protection
We ask you to sign the agreement to ensure you understand the legal consequences and what it means in terms of the contents of the Settlement Agreement.
Who can help me understand the Settlement Agreement?
You will need to hire a solicitor who will be able to provide you with legal advice. You can find a solicitor through The Law Society’s website – Find a Solicitor. If you need further support to find a solicitor, you can contact the Students’ Union, by emailing ubu-advice@bradford.ac.uk or Telephone (01274) 233300. They do not have a preferred supplier and cannot recommend a solicitor to you, but they can help you to understand how to find one.
We can support you with the cost of hiring a solicitor up to the maximum value of £500 including VAT. Please email your solicitor’s invoice to complaintsandappeals@bradford.ac.uk and we will arrange to make the payment directly to your solicitors.
Please note that any compensation payments will be made directly to your solicitor.
Who can be my witness?
The student will need to sign the Settlement Agreement, and will need a witness to sign this too. They must witness the student signing the agreement and also provide their name, job title and address. Normally a student’s solicitor would sign as the witness.

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: http://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/student-casework-intranet/SitePages/Student-Conduct--Frequently-asked-questions.aspx

Student Casework
Student Conduct: Frequently asked questions
Who can I get support from if I am going through the Student Disciplinary or Student Fitness to Practise Procedure?
The Students’ Union are available to support you through this process, and can attend any meeting associated with the allegations and can represent you at a Stage Three or appeal hearing if needed. Students with disabilities or those experiencing health concerns can also contact Disability Services or the appropriate Student Support team for help and advice.
Can I appeal the outcome of the case?
If the case has been considered at Stage Three and you’re not satisfied with the outcome, you can request that an appeal be considered. However, a request to appeal has to be submitted within 10 days of you being notified of the decision, and one of three grounds for appeal has to be satisfied:
- That there was a lack of procedural fairness.
- That new evidence is now available which was not available at the time of the panel hearing. Any new evidence must be submitted along with the request to appeal.
- That the decision made by the panel was manifestly unreasonable.
If the University Secretary determines that the appeal is valid an appeal panel will be convened, chaired by a Deputy Vice-Chancellor or Pro-Vice Chancellor, with two other senior members of staff. The panel will determine whether to reject or uphold the appeal.
What happens if I’m still not satisfied with the outcome of the case?
If you are unhappy with the outcome of the Student Disciplinary Procedure or Student Fitness to Practise Procedure, you may seek to have this considered by the Office of the Independent Adjudicator for Higher Education (OIA). This is done through the OIA Complaints Form, which may be obtained from the OIA, or through MyOIA. However, the OIA will normally expect any submissions to have sought to resolve the issue using the University’s internal process, including the appeal process described above.
The Scheme Application Form must include a copy of the Completion of Procedures letter and should be received by the OIA no later than 12 months after the date of this letter.

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/registry-and-student-admin-intranet/SitePages/Tuition-Debt.aspx

Registry and Student Administration
Composite Fee Debt
Information for students
The University’s expectation is that students pay composite fees on time, in line with the standard payment terms and plans offered by the University. If a student is experiencing financial difficulties, they must notify us as soon as possible so we can support them to make payment.
Composite fees include tuition fees and bench fees, together with any examination, registration, or other fees payable in respect of the programme for which the student is enrolled.
Paying in instalments
Self-funding students can choose to pay their composite fees by instalment in line with the University’s payment plans only. The payment plan options available to the student are detailed in the Applicant Information document sent with the Offer Letter. Where this has not been provided, the University’s Payment Plan terms as detailed in the Composite Fee Liability Policy will apply, based on the students (re-)enrolment period for their programme of study.
Payment plans are not available for composite fee charges of £500.00 or under or short courses (duration of 20 weeks or under).
What happens when students do not pay their fees
Where a payment is not made by the required date, a first written reminder will be issued by email to advise the payment is overdue and the balance should be paid within 14 days.
If payment remains overdue or an alternative payment plan has not been agreed with the Credit Control team, a further reminder requesting payment within 7 days will be issued. The student will be advised their account will be sanctioned if payment is not forthcoming.
A final reminder will be issued by e-mail 7 days after the second reminder to request payment within 7 days and to confirm the student account is now formally being considered for sanctioning.
If payment is still not received the sanction will be applied, and the student will be notified of this action in writing by email. Debtor status will be assigned to the student's account and all IT and Library access will be removed. Where arrears are settled in full, or an accepted payment plan is agreed, IT and Library access will normally be reinstated within one working day.
If the arrears are still not settled after a further period of 14 days, further written notification of the sanction will be sent to the student by email that their studies will be suspended due to outstanding debt. Once arrears are settled in full, (or an accepted payment plan is agreed), Credit Control will notify the student's Faculty Programme / Postgraduate Research Administration team to request the student’s account is re-instated.
Debtor status (loss of IT and Library access)
Students are expected to complete payments as they have agreed to, or to agree an acceptable payment plan with the Credit Control Team if there are grounds to do so. When students fail to keep to these arrangements their student account is change to Debtor status. This means that sanctions will be applied and students will lose all IT and Library access. Their student ID will cease to function for granting access to certain areas of campus (e.g. the Library).
While a student remains at Debtor status the following will apply:
- Attending classes - students are required to continue attending classes as normal, and may still be escalated through attendance monitoring processes as normal. Please continue to swipe in.
- Submitting coursework - students will be unable to submit coursework assignments via Canvas and the assessment will be will be regarded a non-submission. The attempt status of the module will be incremented and if students are permitted another attempt their mark will be capped.
- On-campus examinations - students will not be permitted to attend on-campus examinations and the assessment will be regarded as an absence with no good cause. The attempt status of the module will be incremented and if students are permitted another attempt their mark will be capped.
- Extensions or extenuating circumstances may not be requested on the basis of removal of access due to Debtor status.
- Continuing to the next stage of study - students will not be permitted to continue to the next stage of their studies or to re-enrol in any subsequent academic year.
- Graduation - students who are due to graduate must clear, in full, your outstanding fee balance no later than 1 June if you are due to graduate in July and 1 November if you are due to graduate in December. If you have an outstanding balance of less than £499 by this date, you will be permitted to graduate but will not receive your certificate and / or transcript. If you do not make payment by this date you will not be permitted to graduate and your graduation will be deferred to the next set of ceremonies.
- Certificates and transcripts - until students have paid their fees in full, their certificate and / or transcript will be withheld.
If a student has missed too much of their course due to the Debtor status, we may recommend that they suspend their studies and return at the next entry point for their programme. We would make this recommendation if we believe students would be severely disadvantaged if they continued on the course.
Please note that if students have taken all their coursework and examinations attempts, and were unable to complete their assessments due Debtor status due to non-payment of fees, students may be withdrawn from their course.
Debtor status (suspended students)
Students are expected to complete payments as they have agreed to, or to agree an acceptable payment plan with the Credit Control Team if there are grounds to do so. When students fail to keep to these arrangements their student account is changed to Debtor status and sanctions will be applied. If after students lose all IT and Library access, and they do not settle their arrears in full, or an accepted payment plan is agreed, they will be suspended from their course.
A suspension means that students take a complete break from study. They will not be able to attend classes or use any of the University facilities or resources, for example the Library or their IT account. Depending on your circumstances you may be able to continue to access our Counselling and Mental Health Services.
Students who are suspended from their course should note:
- It may not always be possible to return to study immediately.
- Where a student has missed too much of their course, they may be required to remain suspended and return to study at the next entry point for their programme.
- We cannot always guarantee the same modules or content from the previous year will be available.
- If a coursework deadline or an on-campus examination takes place whilst students are suspended, the attempt status of the module will not be incremented. This means they will be permitted to take the assessment at the same attempt.
- Fees, bursaries, scholarships, loans, maintenance grants - may be impacted and students should consider how this may affect them carefully.
- If you live in student accommodation, you may need to move out but this will depend on the contents of your tenancy agreement as different accommodation providers have different rules for suspended students. Please reach out to our Student Life Team for further advice.
- Where a student is studying on a student visa, we must report the suspension to UK Visas and Immigration (UKVI) and the will cancel the student’s visa. If this is the case, it will be necessary for the student to return home. When students wish to resume the course, they will have to apply for a new CAS and visa.
- Once a suspension is reported to UKVI students will not normally be able to resume their studies without returning home. They will then need to apply for a new CAS and visa for the next available resumption point for their programme (for taught students, normally the following September).
- The maximum period of suspension is 12 months.
- If after 12 months, students have not settled the arrears in full, or an accepted payment plan is agreed, and the student has returned to study, students will be withdrawn from the course.
Support for students with financial problems
Students who are struggling with financial difficulties can seek advice and support from the Student Life Team, and may be able to request a grant from the Student Support Fund (SSF) if students are expecting short-term financial hardship and have insufficient funds to cover their essential costs such as rent and food. Students must be aware, however, that the SSF cannot help students to pay their tuition fees.

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/student-life-service-intranet/SitePages/Support-with-Money.aspx

Student Life and Wellbeing Services
Support with money
Our friendly and supportive Student Life Advisers are here to offer advice and guidance to students on a wide range of money matters. If you have a question about managing your money, get in contact with the team.
We can help you with:
- Student Finance queries
- Benefits
- Budgeting and money management
- Childcare support queries
- Income maximisation
- Hardship support
- Accessing support with food
We hold a daily drop-in on a Monday to Friday at the MyBradford Desk in Student Central between 10:00am and 3:00pm.
You can also contact us online, via email money@bradford.ac.uk or call us on 01274 233218

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/appeals-misconduct-and-complaints-intranet/documents
SOURCE_DOC: Ordinance-16-Conduct-of-Student-Members-of-the-University-July-2021.pdf

Student Casework
Ordinance 16
Approved by Council, 7 July 2021
Ordinance 16
Conduct of Student Members of the University
1. All students are required to provide an undertaking as a condition of their registration with the University that they will duly observe the Charter and Statutes, Ordinances and Regulations of the University from time to time in force.
2. The authority of the University to take disciplinary action against students whose conduct is in breach of the University's Ordinances and Regulations derives from the powers of the Vice-Chancellor and of the Senate as defined in Statute 5.4 and 5.5.
3. The kinds of conduct which the University regards as unacceptable and in respect of which disciplinary action might be taken against students under this Ordinance may include but is not limited to the following: 
3.1. conduct which disrupts the academic, administrative, or other activities of the University; 
3.2. conduct which obstructs any member of the University, or visitor to the University from going about his/her legitimate business in the University; 
3.3. failure to disclose personal details to a member of staff of the University or persons acting as agents for the University, in circumstances in which it is reasonable to require such information to be given; 
3.4. violent, indecent, disorderly, threatening, aggressive, intimidating, bullying, defamatory, derogatory or otherwise offensive behaviour or language, however expressed (including via social media), towards any member of the University or visitor to the University; 
3.5. harassment or discrimination against any member of the University or visitor to the University on the grounds of protected characteristics; 
3.6. sexual misconduct (including but not limited to: engaging, or attempting to engage, in any sexual act without consent; sharing private sexual images or materials of another person without consent; inappropriately showing sex organs to another person; making unwanted remarks of a sexual nature); 
3.7.offences against the Code of Practice on Freedom of Speech; 
3.8. abuse of University facilities, including, for example, computing, and library facilities; 
3.9. damage to, or defacement of, University premises or property or the property of other students or staff, caused intentionally or recklessly; or conduct which is reckless as to whether such premises or property or premises would be damaged; 
3.10. theft, misappropriation or unauthorised removal of any property owned or leased by the University or property belonging to a student, member of staff, authorised visitor to the University or any other individual during the period of the student’s registration; this includes copyright and intellectual property; 
3.11. action likely to cause injury or impair safety on University premises, including misuse of safety equipment and infringement of safety requirements; 
3.12. behaviour that uses or attempts to use fraud, deceit or dishonesty in relation to the University or its staff, funds or property, or in connection with holding any office in the University or in relation to being a student of the University; this includes falsification or misuse of University records including certificates or academic awards and false pretences in connection with academic attainments or financial awards; 
3.13. supply, possession, use, creation or cultivation of any illegal drug, or any prescription drug which is not prescribed to that student, and unacceptable behaviour arising from the consumption of drugs or alcohol; 
3.14. behaviour that jeopardises or damages the good order or the reputation of the University; 
3.15. failure to comply with a penalty previously imposed under these Ordinances or other University procedures (including failure to pay a financial penalty imposed as a result of disciplinary action) or failure to comply with any reasonable instruction relating to discipline issues; 
3.16. interfering with or intimidating witnesses in disciplinary, or other, proceedings and/or breaching the confidentiality of the disciplinary process; 
3.17. making frivolous, vexatious and/or malicious allegations or complaints; 
3.18. offering or giving money, gifts or any other advantage to any employee of the University with the intention of inducing that employee to perform his/her job improperly or of rewarding that employee for performing his/her job improperly; 
3.19. serious academic misconduct including offences in connection with University examinations or the presentation of work for formal assessment; 
3.20. failure to comply with a reasonable request or instruction of the University; 
3.21. hazing, (i.e., initiation ceremonies or initiation-style activities designed to degrade, demean or humiliate participants irrespective of their willingness to participate); and 
3.22. other conduct which may constitute a criminal offence.
4. The fact that proceedings in a Court of Law have been instituted against a student or that the police do not intend to proceed with the matter does not preclude the University from taking its own disciplinary action.
5. The Vice-Chancellor has a general responsibility to the Council and the Senate to maintain the good order of the University.
6. The Vice-Chancellor may delegate to the following University Officers the authority to suspend or expel any student:
- the Deputy Vice-Chancellors;
- the Pro-Vice-Chancellors; and
- the Deans.
7. The procedures for dealing with an alleged commission of an act which constitutes unacceptable conduct are laid down in University Regulations. These procedures will include a student’s right of appeal.
8. A guilty plea or a finding of guilt, and the penalty, in respect of disciplinary action taken against a student under this Ordinance shall be expunged from the record when the student finally leaves the University, except where the penalty is suspension or expulsion from the University or where the course of study is subject to fitness to practise procedures.

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/appeals-misconduct-and-complaints-intranet/documents
SOURCE_DOC: Student Disciplinary Procedure Outcomes Guidance.pdf

Student Disciplinary Procedure
Outcomes Guidance
Section 1: General guidance
1. It is important that when dealing with unacceptable conduct, the University’s processes are clear, consistent, and transparent.
2. Being taken through the Student Disciplinary Procedure can be a stressful experience for students, and it is helpful if all parties have a similar understanding and expectations going into the process.
3. This document gives several examples of the kinds of unacceptable conduct and individual examples of misconduct of differing levels of seriousness which may be appropriately dealt with at different stages of the Procedure. Any of these concerns may be escalated to later stages if they are of a sufficiently serious nature, if there is repeated behaviour or if the student does not recognise their misconduct and amend their behaviour.
4. Please note that this document does not in any sense limit the ability of a Head of School/Panel/other decision-maker to implement any outcome at their discretion, subject to the Student Disciplinary Procedure.
5. The listed typical outcomes at the bottom of this document have been compiled from a number of historic cases at the University, each with their own specific circumstances which has supported the outcome delivered.
6. These outcomes are intended to be illustrative only: it is not a requirement to impose those set out in this document. The nature of the actual misconduct, its context, circumstances, mitigating factors and the health/wellbeing of the individual should all be taken into consideration when determining the outcome of a disciplinary case.
Section 2: Possible outcomes set out in the Student Disciplinary Procedure
Stage One
- No case to answer
- Informal advice
- An informal warning advising that further incidences of misconduct will be dealt with more severely
- Other low-level action/local resolution as deemed appropriate by the Head of School
Stage Two
- Dismiss the case, where there is no case to answer or where the matter has been resolved satisfactorily
- Deal with the matter through local resolution as set out above
- Issue a formal written warning to the student to be lodged on the student’s file and removed either at the conclusion of the student’s studies or for such period as determined by the Head of School. The letter shall advise the student that any proven future misconduct will be dealt with more severely
- Require the student to compensate for or make good any damage to University property (up to the value of £500: cases where the compensation payable would exceed £500 should be referred to Stage 3 of the Procedure)
- Require the student to make appropriate recompense or apology for any offence or harm caused, or any damage done, to members of the University or outside community (up to the value of £500: cases where the recompense would exceed £500 should be referred to Stage 3 of the Procedure)
- Impose a fine of up to £500 payable to the University (to be used to supplement existing sources of funding to alleviate student hardship)
- Require the student to perform unpaid service to the University community up to a maximum of 40 hours
- Refer the matter to the Health, Wellbeing and Fitness to Study Policy and Procedures, the relevant Student Services team for assessment or seek appropriate medical advice as the investigation has identified a health issue
- Refer the matter to a Student Fitness to Practise hearing as the matter under investigation does not constitute an act of misconduct but is a Fitness to Practise concern which should be considered under the Student Fitness to Practice Procedure
- Refer the matter to a Stage Three disciplinary hearing as the case is sufficiently serious that the outcomes above are not adequate
Stage Three
- All outcomes above, although financial penalties can exceed £500 and unpaid service may exceed 40 hours
- Suspend the student (i.e. removal for a specified period of time, not normally more than one year) from the University
- Expel the student (i.e. permanent removal) from the University; the decision will also cover the matter of any intermediate terminating qualification potentially due to the student
- Impose such other sanctions as may be considered appropriate by the panel
Section 3: Comments on specific outcomes
- Where no evidence exists the outcome should be no case to answer (atStage One) or dismiss the case at (Stage Two).
- Compensation or fines are appropriate outcomes where damage or loss has been caused by the student.
- Unpaid service to the University community may be a suitable outcome where a specific department of the University has been targeted or inconvenienced by a student’s actions.
- Where the student is on a regulated course where the misconduct may have a more significant bearing than would be the case for a non-regulated course, the outcome at Stage Two should be to refer to Stage Three hearing under the Student Fitness to Practise Procedure.
- Where it is believed there is an underlying physical or mental health condition which is the reason for the misconduct, the outcome at Stage Two should be to refer to the Health, Wellbeing and Fitness to Study Procedure; depending on the circumstances of the case, it may still be appropriate to also impose a disciplinary outcome such as a warning.
- A Stage Two outcome should only recommend referring the matter to a Stage Three disciplinary hearing where the Investigating Officer/Head of School believes that the case is so serious as to justify suspension and or expulsion as a suitable outcome for the case.
- Suspension should be the outcome in the most serious cases where the Panel believes that the student will learn from the case and that a recurrence is unlikely.
- Expulsion should be considered as an outcome in the most extreme cases where no other outcome is serious enough and or where the Panel believes that the student will not learn from the case and that a recurrence is probable.
Section 4: Examples of misconduct and possible outcomes*
- Disruptive conduct
  - Low level: Talking in a lecture, poor time-keeping, littering → Stage 1 → Informal advice/warning
  - Medium level: Persistent examples of the above → Stage 2 → Formal warning
  - High level: Preventing lecture from taking place → Stage 2 → Suspension
- Smoking or vaping in an area where this is not permitted
  - Low level: Vaping indoors → Stage 1 → Informal warning
  - Medium level: Smoking in non-smoking area → Stage 2 → Formal warning
  - High level: Persistent smoking in non-smoking area → Stage 2, escalated to 3 → Suspension
- Swiping other students’ attendance at lectures
  - Low level: First offence → Stage 1 → Informal warning
  - Medium level: Second offence → Stage 2 → Formal warning
  - High level: Repeated offences → Stage 2, escalated to 3 → Suspension
- Misuse of facilities such as the computing or library facilities
  - Low level: Playing games when computer room is busy → Stage 1 → Informal warning
  - Medium level: Misuse impacting on wider University → Stage 2 → Formal warning
  - High level: Illegal activity → Stage 2, escalated to 3 → Expulsion
- Vandalism
  - Low level: Inadvertent or minor damage → Formal warning
  - Medium level: Damage of £100-£1000 → Stage 2, potentially escalated to 3 → Require recompense
  - High level: Damage of over £1,000 → Stage 2, escalated to 3 → Expulsion
- Non-compliance with a reasonable direction from the University
  - Low level: First offence → Stage 1 → Informal warning
  - Medium level: Second offence → Stage 2 → Formal warning
  - High level: Repeated offences, blatant non-compliance → Stage 2, escalated to 3 → Suspension
- Violence
  - Low level: Inadvertent violence, pushing and shoving → Stage 2 → Formal warning
  - Medium level: Minor scuffle → Stage 2, escalated to 3 → Suspension
  - High level: Full fight, targeted violence at a specific group → Stage 2, escalated to 3 → Expulsion
- Threatening and/or antagonistic behaviour toward staff or students
  - Low level: General antagonistic behaviour → Stage 1 → Informal warning
  - Medium level: Threatening attitude/behaviour → Stage 2 → Formal warning
  - High level: Persistent threatening and/or antagonistic behaviour → Stage 2, escalated to 3 → Suspension/Expulsion
- Behaviour not aligned to University values (including bullying or discriminatory language)
  - Low level: Inappropriate verbal comment → Stage 1 → Informal warning
  - Medium level: Repeated inappropriate comments or written statements → Stage 2 → Formal warning
  - High level: Mocking or blatant comments made in writing or published → Stage 2, escalated to 3 → Suspension/Expulsion
- Inappropriate use of social media
  - Low level: One-off comment not intended to cause offence → Stage 1 → Informal warning
  - Medium level: Repeated examples → Stage 2 → Formal warning
  - High level: Mocking or intentional offence → Stage 2, escalated to 3 → Suspension/Expulsion
- Fraudulently altering University records or communications
  - Low level: Changing date on sick note → Stage 2 → Formal warning
  - Medium level: Sending email purporting to be from staff → Stage 2, escalated to 3 → Suspension
  - High level: Changing grades on transcript → Stage 2, escalated to 3 → Expulsion
- Criminal behaviour (e.g., theft, assault, possession of drugs)
  - Low level: Possession of drugs → Stage 2 → Formal warning
  - Medium level: Theft from University → Stage 2, escalated to 3 → Suspension
  - High level: Serious violence → Stage 2, escalated to 3 → Expulsion
- Harassment toward University members or the public
  - Low level: Verbal sexual harassment → Stage 2 → Formal warning
  - Medium level: Continued harassment despite interventions → Stage 2, escalated to 3 → Suspension
  - High level: Stalking → Stage 2, escalated to 3 → Expulsion

* See paragraphs 4 and 5 in section one

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/campusconnect-intranet/documents
SOURCE_DOC: multi-factor-authentication.pdf

IT Services
Multi factor authentication (MFA)
What is multi factor authentication (MFA)?
MFA is an extra security measure to ensure secure access to accounts during the sign-in process. This helps to keep our data safe.
MFA implements a two-step verification process which prompts you to approve your sign-in using a different method or on a different device. Most people use their phone to do this (via an app notification, via a code sent by a text message, or via a call). This means we can be sure that the person trying to access the University’s services is really you, and not somebody who has managed to steal your account details - even if they have your password, the odds are that they don't have your device, too.
Add authentication methods
Please have your mobile device ready when following these instructions.
1. On your computer or laptop: in a web browser, go to https://aka.ms/mysecurityinfo.
2. If you aren’t already signed in to your University Microsoft 365 account, the sign-in screen will appear (if you don’t see this screen, skip to step 3). On this screen, enter your University username with @bradford.ac.uk appended – for example jrblogg2@bradford.ac.uk (note: that’s not the same as your email address) - and select Next.
3. Enter your University password and select Sign in.
4. On the Security info screen that loads, select Add method.
5. You will how have several options to choose from:
Important: We strongly recommend setting at least two methods, so you can use another if one of your methods becomes unavailable. The two we recommend are: Microsoft Authenticator app and Phone (instructions for both are included below). We also recommend setting the Microsoft Authenticator app as the default method where possible, as feedback suggests this is the easiest method for approving sign-ins.
Note: If you cannot install apps on your phone, you can have codes sent via text to your phone instead (this method is covered in steps 16 onwards below).
6. Select Authenticator app and then Add.
7. On your mobile device: search your app store for the Microsoft Authenticator app and install it.
You might receive a prompt asking whether to allow the app to access your camera (iOS) or to allow the app to take pictures and record video (Android). You must select Allow so the authenticator app can access your camera to take a picture of the QR code in the next step. If you don't allow the camera, you can still set up the authenticator app, but you'll need to add the code information manually.
Wait for the installation to complete.
8. On your computer or laptop: select Next.
9. On your mobile device: in the Microsoft Authenticator app, select Add account, and then Work or school account.
10. On your computer or laptop: select Next.
11. Scan the QR code that appears on your computer or laptop screen with your mobile.
12. On your computer or laptop: select Next.
13. On your mobile device: you should get an approval notification within the Microsoft Authenticator app on your mobile – go ahead and approve it.
14. On your computer or laptop: on the Security info screen, select Next.
You’ll see a confirmation message once you’ve successfully added this method of authentication.
15. Now set up an alternative method. To do this, select Add method.
16. Select a method - we recommend choosing Phone - and then select Add (the subsequent instructions are based on the ‘Phone’ option).
17. Select United Kingdom, enter your phone number, choose if you want to receive a verification code via a text message or via a phone call, and then select Next.
Please note: your phone number is not shared with the University’s global directory.
18. Enter the code that was sent to your phone, and select Next.
You’ll see a confirmation message once you’ve successfully added this method of authentication.
Add further methods or change the details
To add other authentication methods, or change your existing methods at any time, go to https://aka.ms/mysecurityinfo. The methods you’ve already set up will be displayed.
To add a new method, select Add method near the top. We recommend that you add as many other methods as you can - for example, an alternative phone if possible - in case your phone breaks.
Note:
- For every phone you add, you’ll be able to choose to authenticate via a call or via a text message (note: text won’t work on any devices that don’t support it).
- The ‘Email’ method won’t work for approving MFA sign-ins (it’s only used for password resets).
- If you are a staff member, please do not add the ‘Office phone’ method.
To change a method that’s listed, select Delete next to it, and then select Add method at the top to add new details. Note: If you change the phone or phone number that you used when you registered for SSPR, then that method of authentication will no longer work.
To change the default way you authenticate, select Change at the top and then select your preferred method from the list of methods you’ve already added. If you’ve added the Authenticator app, we recommend setting Microsoft Authenticator – notification as your default method.
Note: If you subsequently change the phone or phone number you’re using as an authentication method, you will need to register your new phone. The old one will no longer work for MFA.
Help
If you have any issues with MFA, please contact IT Servicedesk (call 01274 233333).

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/counselling-service-intranet/documents
SOURCE_DOC: Campus Map.pdf

University of Bradford
CITY CAMPUS
www.bradford.ac.uk
How to Find Us
Travelling to the City Campus
We want to make your visit to the University of Bradford as sustainable as possible. We have many IT solutions in place to effectively communicate remotely. If your journey is essential then there are a number of ways to travel in a sustainable way.
Visit www.bradford.ac.uk/smart-travel
- Public Transport – by Train, Coach or Bus
We are conveniently located in the centre of England and you can get here from Edinburgh, London or Bristol within 4 hours. There are good rail links to Bradford Forster Square and Bradford Interchange and good coach services to and from Bradford Interchange. From there you can take buses 576 Bradford-Halifax which leave at regular intervals and pass the City Campus, taking 5 minutes. To check current bus timetables please see www.wymetro.com
- Cycling
We have showers and a secure cycle store for your use and convenience. To access these facilities you will need to visit the main reception in the Richmond Building on arrival - see www.bradford.ac.uk/smart-travel/cycling. You can plan your route by visiting www.cyclestreets.net/
- Walking
It only takes around 15 minutes to walk from the city centre, though it is partly uphill! From Bradford Interchange walk down the hill towards City Hall, then turn left past City Hall. From Forster Square station, walk past the “Fibres” sculpture onto Cheapside, then along Market Street towards City Hall. Walk through Centenary Square and City Park and continue towards the Alhambra Theatre. Turn right up Great Horton Road just before the Alhambra, and the University’s City Campus is about 300 metres up this hill just beyond the College.
- By Car
Bradford is connected to the national motorway network via the M62 and M606. If you are travelling from the south, east or west of Bradford, you will probably find it most convenient to use the M62 and M606. If you are arriving from the north-west you will probably use the A629/A650 via Skipton and Keighley. From the north-east it is most convenient to use the A1 or A19, and reach Bradford via the A59 and then the A658 south of Harrogate.
Many road signs on the major routes into the city have the route to the University indicated by a mortarboard symbol.
- By Air
There are direct regular air services into Leeds Bradford Airport (7 miles/11 km from the University’s City Campus) from various cities around the UK,
Ireland and Europe. From the Airport a half-hourly bus service operates into Bradford, or alternatively taxis are usually available.
Many internal and international flights can be also be made into Manchester Airport which is about 50 miles/80 km south-west of Bradford.
Bradford Facts
- Bradford is the world’s first UNESCO City of Film
- Bradford is one of the largest cities in the UK
- Artist David Hockney was born in Bradford in 1937 - his art collections can be viewed at the David Hockney Gallery in Cartwright Hall in Bradford, and in the 1853 Gallery in nearby Saltaire
- The National Science and Media Museum in Bradford is one of the most visited museum attractions outside London
- Composer Frederick Delius was born in Bradford in 1862
- The writer and philanthropist J B Priestley was from
-  Bradford. Famous works include ‘An Inspector Calls’ and ‘When We Are Married’ Bradford has been voted Curry Capital of Britain in 2011, 2012, 2013, 2014, 2015 and 2016
University of Bradford, Richmond Road,
Bradford, West Yorkshire, BD7 1DP
T: 0800 073 1225 (0300 456 2666 from mobiles)
E: enquiries@bradford.ac.uk
1. Richmond Building
Admissions (MyBradford)
Alumni and Development
Archaeological & Forensic Sciences
Atrium Restaurant
Biomedical Sciences
Chemistry
Clinical Sciences
Computer Clusters
Course Enquiries (MyBradford)
Engagement, Events & Partnerships
Fees and Bursaries (MyBradford)
Finance (Cashiers) (MyBradford)
Great & Small Halls
Integrated Life Sciences Learning Centre
International Student Advice (MyBradford)
International Student Centre (Room 101)
MyBradford – Student Support Service
Pharmacy
Psychology
Recruitment and Outreach (MyBradford)
Research & Knowledge Transfer Support
Social Work and Social Care
Sociology and Criminology
Student Registry Services (MyBradford)
Student Support Centre (MyBradford)
2. Atrium, Richmond Building
Atrium Shop, Richmond Building
Reception and Security (24 hours)
Coffee Bar and Catering Outlets
Unipol Accommodation Bureau
3. Richmond Building Workshop Block
Biomedical Engineering and Clinical Technology labs
Electronics and Electrical Engineering labs
Inprint + Design
Polymer Micro & Nano Technology Centre (Polymer MNT)
Student Print (Inprint + Design)
4. ICT Building
Institute of Cancer Therapeutics
5. Norcroft Building and Norcroft Centre
Conference Centre
Pharmaceutical Innovation CIC
Centre for Chemical and Structural Analysis
6. The Green
Accommodation Office (The Orchard)
Launderette
Student Accommodation
7. Horton A Building
Health Studies
MyBradford help point
8. Horton D Building
Specialist Computer labs
Pen-Testing Lab
TV Production Studio
Digital Arts and Editing Suites
Chroma Key Studio
Motion Capture Suite
MyBradford help point
The Barn Lecture Theatre
9. Chesham B Building
Chemical Engineering labs
Gallery II
Academic Skills Advice
Language Centre
10. Chesham C Building
Civil & Structural Engineering labs
Mechanical Engineering labs
Computer suites
Tasmin Little Music Centre
11. Student Central and J B Priestley Building
Bars on Campus
Career and Employability Services
Computer Clusters
Counselling Service
Disability Service
Faith Advisers
IT Services
MyBradford – Student Support Service
Library
Shop
Students’ Union & Services
12. Sports and Amenities and Carlton Building
Multi-purpose games area/All-weather pitches
Unique: Fitness & Lifestyle
Postgraduate Research Centre (Carlton Building)
Prayer Room (Carlton Building)
13. Pemberton Building
Faculty of Management,Law and Social Sciences
Peace Studies and International Development
MyBradford help point
14. Ashfield Building
Faculty of Management,Law and Social Sciences
Social Sciences Research Offices
15. Phoenix Building South West
DHEZ Academic (Digital Health Enterprise Zone), incorporating:
Technology Smart House
Pathology Lab
Phlebotomy Suite
Public clinics:
-Medicines Advice Hub
-Physiotherapy and Sport Rehabilitation Clinic
-Eye Clinic
Optometry
16. Phoenix Building North East
Property Services, Finance and Planning & Performance
Theatre in the Mill
17. The Bright Building
Faculty of Management,Law and Social Sciences
re:centre (Education and Sustainable Development Centre)
18. The Cavendish Building
The STEM Centre (Science, Technology, Engineering and Maths)
19. Peace Garden
- Catering Outlets:
Starbucks, Richmond Building
CURB, Richmond Building
Atrium Shop, Richmond Building
Costa, Student Central
Shop, Student Central
Sports Bar, Student Central
Central Shakes Ice Cream Parlour, Student Central
Amp Bar, Student Central
Escape Lounge, Student Central (event led venue)
- Laisteridge Lane Site 
Bradford Student Health Service
Nursery
All-weather pitches
- Off-Site Amenities
Post Office (counter inside McColl’s Convenience Store, Great Horton Road)
Car Parks
Recommended City Centre Car Parks*
- Car Park 1: Sharpe Street, Post Code: BD5 0QJ, Number of Spaces: 98
- Car Park 2: Radwell Drive, Post Code: BD5 0QP, Number of Spaces: 105
- Car Park 3: Britannia Street, Post Code: BD5 0DW, Number of Spaces: 62
- Car Park 4: Hall Ings, Post Code: BD1 5SD, Number of Spaces: 526
- Car Park 5: Crown Court, Post Code: BD1 1JA, Number of Spaces: 150
- Car Park 6: Leisure Exchange, Post Code: BD1 5LD, Number of Spaces: 996
- Car Park 7: The Broadway, Post Code: BD1 1JR, Number of Spaces: 1295
- Car Park 8: Kirkgate Shopping Centre, Post Code: BD1 1TQ, Number of Spaces: 650
- Car Park 9: Southgate, Post Code: BD1 2AP, Number of Spaces: 432
Visitor Car Parking
Where to park – Visitor and local car parks
Visitors arriving at the University City Campus can use the first-come first-served visitors’ car park adjacent to the Richmond Building. This can be accessed from the University entrance on Great Horton Road. Once in this facility, please report to the Richmond Building reception to give your car registration number. If this facility is full, please use one of the nearby car parks or parking available in the local streets.
If parking in the streets, please be respectful of local residents.

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/counselling-service-intranet/documents
SOURCE_DOC: CMHS Accessibility Strategy - 2024.pdf

Counselling and Mental Health Service
Accessibility Strategy
The Counselling and Mental Health Service strives to be accessible to all staff and students of the University community.
We do this by:
- Recording and monitoring several protected characteristics on our registration forms.
- Monitoring and reviewing all statistical information annually to identify Service use and incorporate into planning strategies.
- Monitor, review and act on all feedback received regarding accessibility from both clients and colleagues.
- Ensuring that Equality, Diversity and Accessibility are addressed in all stages of recruitment, both institutionally and locally.
- Identifying gaps and addressing these in staff training, where necessary.
- Working closely with other members of the University and University Student Union to ensure we are doing everything we can to address any accessibility limitations and remove, where possible, any barriers.
- Actively liaising with relevant external agencies to work together on promoting accessibility for under-represented groups.
We endeavour to ensure that, wherever possible, no-one is excluded from using our Service and will take all reasonable steps to remove any barriers to access.
August 2024 Counselling and Mental Health Service

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/counselling-service-intranet/documents
SOURCE_DOC: CMHS Complaints Procedure 2024.pdf

Counselling and Mental Health Service
Complaints Procedure for Service Users
The Counselling and Mental Health Service seeks to ensure that it deals with complaints from clients in an ethical and respectful manner.
In the event of a client believing they have a legitimate complaint against another member of staff or aspect of the Service, they should in the first instance raise this with the member of staff concerned as part of an informal complaints' procedure. The client should identify the issues about which they are dissatisfied, and the outcome they are seeking, and should communicate this in writing via email or letter to the most appropriate member of staff (e.g. the Counsellor or Mental Health Advisor concerned) or to the Counselling or Mental Health Advice Service Manager, whichever is most appropriate.
The informal complaint should be acknowledged within 10 working days and a full report should be provided within a calendar month. If the complaint cannot be resolved at this stage, the following will apply:
- The complaint should be put in writing to either the Counselling Service Manager or the Mental Health Advice Manager, or both, and where the Manager of either Service is the subject of the complaint, to the Head of Wellbeing, Learning Teaching and Student Experience.
- The written complaint should detail the grounds for complaint and why any action taken at the informal level is inadequate.
- The form of resolution or redress sought should be clearly indicated.
- The Service Manager or the Head of Wellbeing will work with a member of the Core Team to investigate the complaint.
- The subject of the complaint will be asked to answer the complaint in writing within 10 working days. If it is regarding procedures or policies, these will be sent to the Head of Wellbeing for consideration with the Service Manager within 10 working days.
- The complainant may be asked to attend a meeting to clarify the issues.
- The findings will be summarised and conveyed in writing to both parties within 28 days.
The summary may include the following:
- The circumstances giving rise to the complaint
- The investigation undertaken
- Recommendations about action to develop the member of staff who is the subject of the complaint
- Recommendations for action regarding the Service e.g. policy or practice
If this does not satisfactorily deal with the complaint, it may be pursued with the Head of Wellbeing, Learning, Teaching and Student Experience.
Counselling and Mental Health Service – September 2024

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/counselling-service-intranet/documents
SOURCE_DOC: CMHS Extenuating Circumstances Policy - 2024.pdf

Counselling and Mental Health Service
Providing evidence to support extenuating circumstances: information and guidelines
What are Extenuating Circumstances, as defined in the University’s policy?
These will normally be exceptional circumstances beyond the student’s control which cause them to perform significantly less well, in coursework or examinations, than might have been expected on the basis of performance in other work.
This means that there needs to be:
- ‘Good cause’ which has prevented a student from attending required assessments or from completing a particular assessment.
- Ill-health or other form of adverse circumstances which may have led to significant impairment of a student’s performance in an assessment;
For example:
- suffering a serious illness or injury
- an unexpected change in, or impact of, a disability
- the death or critical illness of a close family member
- a significant family crisis leading to acute stress
- absence arising from jury service, maternity, paternity or adoption leave
In general, extenuating circumstances will be of a medical or personal nature affecting the student for a significant period of time and/or during the examination period.
Please see the University of Bradford Extenuating Circumstances Policy and Procedure for a fuller definition and more guidance.
Counselling and Mental Health Service Policy
Where appropriate, Counsellors or Mental Health Advisors will provide a standard letter in support of extenuating circumstances where those circumstances interfered with the student’s ability to focus on academic work and where the student has clearly endeavoured to manage with our help.
The following points contain information and guidelines about when we will provide this:
- The Counsellor or Mental Health Advisor needs to be confident that they are in a position to make a judgement that the issues that the client has disclosed to them have seriously affected his or her ability to meet course requirements.
- In order to make this kind of a judgement, the Counsellor or Mental Health Advisor needs to have a clear awareness and understanding of the client's difficulties.
- Generally, this means that the student has attended at least one 50-minute counselling appointment (not just a 25-minute intake appointment), or that they have attended at least one 50-minute intake appointment with a Mental Health Advisor.
- Providing evidence of this kind for a client needs to come as a result of the counselling or mental health advice and not be the purpose of it.
- Letters will only ever be provided at the student's request and with the student's permission. They will normally be shared directly with the student by email.
- The Counsellor or Mental Health Advisor will provide a standard letter which does not go into any specific details.
- Any extenuating circumstances letter sent by the Counselling and Mental Health Service will state the number of sessions and dates attended.
- Even if a Counsellor or Mental Health Advisor has seen a student for several appointments, s/he may not feel that providing this kind of evidence is appropriate.
- For postgraduate research students we provide letters confirming extenuating circumstances to support requests for suspension/extension of study.
Confirmation of attendance
In certain circumstances we may provide letters confirming attendance at the Counselling and Mental Health Service. However, the provision of a letter confirming attendance is not, in itself, proof of an extenuating circumstance.
Confirmation of fitness to study
We do not provide evidence confirming fitness to study. This can only be provided by a medical professional.
For further information and advice about Extenuating Circumstances:
- University guidance: Student Life information about extenuating circumstances
- Contact the Counselling and Mental Health Service:
- counselling@bradford.ac.uk
- mhadvice@bradford.ac.uk
- 01274 235 750
- Contact the Disability Service:
- Main Disability website
- Disability FAQ page - for students
- Disability FAQ page - for staff
- disabilities@bradford.ac.uk
- 01274 233739
- Contact the Students Union
- UBU Main Website
- Information about Extenuating Circumstances
- Extenuating Circumstances Guidance
- ubu-advice@bradford.ac.uk
August 2024 Counselling and Mental Health Service

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/counselling-service-intranet/documents
SOURCE_DOC: Confidentiality Statement 2024.pdf

Counselling and Mental Health Service
Confidentiality Statement
The Counselling and Mental Health Service provides the opportunity to speak confidentially with a Counsellor (Bradford University students and staff) and / or a Mental Health Advisor(University students only). This statement outlines in detail what is meant by confidentiality in this Service.
- Confidentiality is maintained between the service user and the Counselling and Mental Health Service team.
- If the Counsellor or Mental Health Advisor has reason to believe that the service user or a third party is at serious risk of harm to themselves or that they are likely to cause harm to another, they may consider talking to a professional outside of the service, e.g., the GP, First Response, or another agency. Wherever possible this would be discussed with the service user first.
- There are also a few occasions when the law requires Counsellors / Mental Health Advisors to tell the police about specific offenses including acts of terrorism and information regarding the laundering of drugs money. In all other instances, if courts of law require a Counsellor to disclose information held in client notes, they will need to obtain a subpoena if the client withholds permission.
- Other reasons to disclose would be because the employing organisation places a duty to disclose upon their staff e.g. in relation to safeguarding children.
- Any request for information about a client of the service will not be released unless the client has given their express permission for the information to be disclosed or if a subpoena is served. This includes information about whether an individual is a client of the service.
- Counsellors and Mental Health Advisors keep brief notes of all sessions. All service user information (including notes) are kept on a secure data system, accessible only to Counselling and Mental Health Service staff. It is deleted after 7 academic years unless the service user is still active within the service.
- If University students see a Mental Health Advisor and apply for Disabled Students’ Allowance, or have a Learner Support Profile in place, records of their LSP and DSA application will also be kept on University systems. These will be accessible by the Disability Service for processing of applications and profiles purposes.
- The Mental Health Advisors and Counsellors may ask students to give their consent to share key information in a relevant and appropriate way based on a need-to-know basis. This is only where there is a legitimate interest for University colleagues, or external professional staff, to understand a student’s situation and need for support.
- Under the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR 2018), the client is entitled to see their notes. If anyone wishes to access their notes, we advise them to discuss this with the Service as a first step. Please see our Record Keeping Requests Policy and Procedure 2024.
- Information provided on the online registration form is stored in a password protected database. This is used for anonymised statistical analysis as part of the review process.
- All Counsellors and Mental Health Advisors attend regular supervision where casework is discussed to ensure that they are working ethically and safely and that the counselling / mental health advice they provide is purposeful. Identities are protected in supervision.
Counselling and Mental Health Service September 2024

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/counselling-service-intranet/documents
SOURCE_DOC: Important Service User Information.pdf

Counselling and Mental Health Service
Important Service User Information
How Counsellors can support you
- Offering a confidential space to talk about your worries without fear of being judged or told what to do.
- Helping you to identify your needs and priorities.
- Developing an understanding of your difficulties and exploring different ways of coping.
How Mental Health Advisors can support you (University of Bradford students only)
- We can support students with a diagnosed mental health condition to complete a Learner Support Profile.
- We can support students who are UK residents to apply for Disabled Student Allowance.
- We can support students to complete a Placement Support Agreement.
- We provide and coordinate support to students who are in a mental health crisis.
Our Counsellors and Mental Health Advisors can provide a letter to support your application for Extenuating Circumstances if your situation meets the criteria described in our Extenuating Circumstances Policy.
How many sessions will I receive?
- Everyone is offered a 25-minute Intake Appointment to discuss your needs and explore support options.
- We may offer additional appointments with a Mental Health Advisor, or Counsellor, or both, as appropriate.
Counselling for Students (University of Bradford and Bradford College)
- We offer blocks of up to 4 x 50-minute sessions
- Each session usually takes place on the same day and time each week.
- You can access more than one block of 4 sessions per academic year.
- To manage demand, we apply a break of at least 4 weeks between each block of sessions.
Counselling For Staff (University of Bradford staff only)
- We offer one block of up to 6 x 50-minute sessions per academic year.
- Each session usually takes place on the same day and time each week.
- To manage demand, we are unable to carry-over unused sessions from one academic year to the next.
Mental Health Advice (University of Bradford students only)
- The number of sessions offered will vary according to your individual needs.
What happens if I can’t attend or cancel an appointment?
If you need to cancel or reschedule your appointment, please email counselling@bradford.ac.uk (for counselling appointments) or mhadvice@bradford.ac.uk (for Mental Health Advice appointments)
- If you cancel within 48 hours of your appointment, it will count as one of your sessions.
- If you do not attend and fail to get back to us within 24 hours, your remaining appointments will be offered to someone else and you will be placed back on the waiting list.
If you cancel or do not attend more than two appointments in a row, your remaining appointments will be offered to someone else, and you will be asked to contact us again when you are ready to re-engage.
Are my appointments confidential?
Under normal circumstances, everything you tell us is kept confidential. However, there are limited circumstances when confidentiality can and will be broken, such as:
- Where we believe that you are at serious risk of harm to yourself, at serious risk from others, or that other people are at serious risk; active child abuse; drug trafficking; money laundering; or active terrorism.
- Our decisions are informed by the law, University policy and their professional bodies.
- Counsellors and Mental Health Advisors discuss their work with an external, independent supervisor, to maintain ethical and professional standards and safeguard the interests of clients in a way that protects clients’ anonymity.
If you are offered a telephone or MS Teams meeting, please ensure that you are in a confidential space where our conversation cannot be overheard by others.
What records and information do you keep?
- Brief notes are kept of the sessions in compliance with the General Data Protection Regulations (GDPR).
- Data kept by the Service is not part of your student / staff record and is securely destroyed after 7 years.
- Please read our Privacy Notice for more information.
- If you wish to access your records, please see our Record Keeping Requests Policy.
I'm not happy with the Service. What can I do?
The Counselling and Mental Health Service aims to deal with complaints from clients in an ethical and respectful manner. Please read our Complaints Policy for detailed information about what to do next.
Whilst you wait for an appointment, please consider...
- Informing your Personal Tutor, Programme Administrator, or Line Manager about your difficulties.
- Bradford College students can contact the Bradford College Safeguarding and Wellbeing team on 01274 088 999 / 07872 052 703 or a member of duty staff via Teams. Alternatively, email safeguarding@bradfordcollege.ac.uk
- Contacting your GP, especially if you are experiencing low mood, anxiety or have any worrying physical symptoms.
- Visiting our Self-Help page or UBU Help Centre.
- Accessing our short, online workshops: Anxiety, Assertiveness, Bereavement & Loss, Compassion, Managing Change, Procrastination, Resilience, Sleep
- If you are suicidal and unable to keep yourself safe, call Bradford NHS First Response on 0800 952 1181, call 999, or go to Bradford A&E and ask to speak to the local Crisis Team.
Please also refer to the advice, information and guidance available from (university students only):
Career and Employability Service
Chaplaincy and faith advisers
Disability Service
Student Life Team
Students’ Union
Security Team
Health, Safety & Security - Safe Zone App
Unique Fitness

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/counselling-service-intranet/documents
SOURCE_DOC: Privacy Notice - 2024.pdf

Counselling and Mental Health Service
Privacy Notice
To deliver an effective Counselling & Mental Health Service, we need to collect and process certain data about you. This privacy notice explains what information we process about you (the data subject), what purpose we are processing it for, and your rights in relation to the data we hold about you.
Information we collect
This consists of the data you gave when you completed our online registration form, plus a record of appointments, including brief notes about each session.
What categories of personal and sensitive data are processed?
The data we collect consists of the following:
- Contact Details
- Staff/Student ID Number
- Education Status
- Information about your health
- Information you share with us about your cultural, economic and social identity, which may include information about any disability
How we store it and who has access to it
All information is held on a secure data base called Titanium, which is not linked to any of your student records or other University systems. This is password protected and only authorised members of the Counselling & Mental Health Service (Data Processors) have access to your data.
Under what legal basis does the processing of my personal data take place?
The General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), as enshrined into UK law alongside the Data Protection Act 2018, outlines different legal bases under which processing of personal data may take place. In this case, the following bases apply:
- Consent: We asked for your agreement to us processing your data when you completed your online registration form.
- Performance of a contract: We need information so we can contact you and to maintain brief notes to effectively deliver your counselling contract and/or mental health advice. This information is collected to protect you, to enable us to deliver an efficient service and to comply with the BACP Ethical Framework for the Counselling Professions or other Professional Ethical Guidelines (e.g. UMHAN). We also keep anonymised statistics to understand Service use within the University. This supports us to track service use, to ensure we are as accessible as possible. It is a requirement of the Service that we collect this information.
Where do we get your personal data from?
From the online registration form that you fill in and from SITs.
Who else do we pass this information on to?
We do not pass any of your data onto anyone outside the Service without your explicit consent. The only time we would break this confidentiality is in cases of extreme risk of harm to yourself or someone else. In these situations, we may need to share information within the wider wellbeing team at the university, the emergency services or healthcare providers.
How long do we keep this information for?
We keep all your electronic records for 7 years after which time they are securely deleted.
What are your rights as a data subject?
As the person whose personal data we are processing, you have certain rights in respect of that personal data. You have the right:
- To withdraw consent. However, if you do this you will no longer be able to use our service.
- To access your personal data that we process.
- To rectify inaccuracies in personal data that we hold about you.
- To request the deletion or removal of your personal data where there is no compelling reason for its continued processing.
- To restrict the processing of your personal data in certain ways.
- To obtain your personal data for reuse.
- To object certain processing of your personal data.
- To complain to the Information Commissioner’s Office about the way in which we process your personal data.
If you have any questions about this privacy notice, please contact the department’s Data Controller by emailing counselling@bradford.ac.uk. You can also contact the University’s Data Protection Officer, Matthew Stephenson, data-protection@bradford.ac.uk, University of Bradford, Richmond Road, Bradford, BD7 1DP.
August 2024 Counselling and Mental Health Service

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/counselling-service-intranet/documents
SOURCE_DOC: Record Keeping & Requests Policy & Procedure - Counsellors and Mental Health Advisors  - Guidance for Clients - 2024.pdf

Counselling and Mental Health Service
Record keeping and requesting access to Counselling and Mental Health Advice records – policy and procedure for clients
All records are the property of the Counselling and Mental Health Service but, in compliance with UK GDPR and Data Protection Act 2018, you have a right of access to all records kept about you. Our Privacy Notice explains what data we hold about you, why, and how you might access it.
This policy and procedure give more detail about the information we hold about you, and explains how you might access your records, should you wish to.
Confidentiality
The information we hold is kept confidentially. It is only in cases of serious risk of harm that there is ever any question of information being passed on without your explicit consent, or where the courts require us to provide information by law.
Where we store information
All information is stored in an online password protected database (Titanium), accessible only by members of the Counselling and Mental Health Service team. The service adheres to the BACP Ethical Framework for the Counselling Professions.
Information collected and held in the service
- Contact information and wellbeing questionnaire: When you approach us you are asked to complete an online registration form, providing name and contact details. You may also be requested to complete a CCAPS or CORE 10 initial and final assessment to support us in understanding your levels of wellbeing.
- Demographic data: Demographic data including age and gender is collected for use in anonymised statistical analysis and reporting. This is used to support service monitoring and access.
- Session notes: These are brief and factual confidential records written by the Counsellors/Mental Health Advisors about the content of the sessions they undertake with you. We collect this information to support how we work with you and maintain a record of any other support we have offered or connected you to.
If you see a Mental Health Advisor and apply for Disabled Students’ Allowance or have a Learner Support Profile in place, records will also be kept on university systems. These will also be accessible by the Disability Service.
How long we keep information for
As a client, all information held about you is securely disposed of after 7 academic years unless you are still active within the service.
If you wish to access your records
- We advise firstly that you discuss with your Counsellor or Mental Health Advisor what you are requesting your records for, to consider the potential impact of releasing your records.
- If you wish to continue, we will send you a release of records request response to be filled in and returned.
- You can arrange another appointment where you and your Counsellor or Mental Health Advisor can go through the records.
- If you agree that releasing a copy of the records is appropriate, you will need to sign the release of notes consent form. You will also need to produce valid photographic ID such as a passport or driving licence. If you do not have either of these forms of ID, please contact us for advice.
- Records of what is discussed and agreed to will be kept in the service, in line with our record keeping practices.
Counselling and Mental Health Service August 2024

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/disability-service-intranet/documents
SOURCE_DOC: Disability Service Privacy Notice - 2025.pdf

Disability Service
Privacy Notice
The Disability Service provides information, advice and guidance whether you are an applicant, current or international disabled student.
To deliver an effective Disability Service, we need to collect and process certain data about you. This privacy notice explains what information we process about you (the data subject), what purpose we are processing it for, and your rights in relation to the data we hold about you.
The information you provide to us will be used by the University to ensure relevant support is provided to aid you in your studies. This support may include:
- A Learner Support Profile (LSP) which lists adjustments and is available online to University staff to ensure study adjustments are put in place.
- A Needs Assessment sent to us by your funding body or assessment centre detailing funding for equipment, printing and/or Non-Medical Helper. This Needs Assessment will include your medical evidence or your diagnostic report.
- Screening results and/or former diagnostic assessments shared with Educational/Clinical Psychologist who may be assessing or reassessing you.
- General Student Life and Wellbeing teams support as appropriate via an online case management system – My Bradford Support.
Information we collect
This consists of:
- The data you gave when you completed our online My Bradford Support registration form
- A record of appointments, including brief notes about each session.
- Emails and correspondence between you and the service regarding your disability and appointments that have taken place.
- Information about your funding arrangements if you have applied for Disabled Students Allowance.
- Any relevant medical information or information that shows you have a long-term condition that requires support.
- Any results of any diagnostic assessment completed by an educational psychologist or as part of our online screening process QuickScan and QuickScreen.
What categories of personal and sensitive data are processed?
Types of personal data may include but is not limited to:
- Personal details.
- Staff/student ID number.
- Disability status and physical & mental health details.
- Education details, student records and employment details (if relevant).
- Information you choose to share with us about your cultural, economic and social identity.
How we store it and who has access to it
All information is stored on designated systems SITS, My Bradford Support and Microsoft Teams. Only the Disability Team has access to Student files located on Teams. SITS and My Bradford Support are accessible via password and only authorised staff have access to these systems.
Under what legal basis does the processing of my personal data take place?
The UK General Data Protection Regulation (UK GDPR), as enshrined into UK law alongside the Data Protection Act 2018, outlines different legal bases under which processing of personal data may take place. In this case, the following bases apply:
- Consent: We asked for your agreement to us processing your data when you completed your online registration form.
- Performance of a contract: We need information so we can contact you and to maintain notes to effectively deliver your support and disability advice in compliance with the NADP Code of Practice. This information is collected to protect you, to enable us to deliver an efficient service and put in place reasonable adjustments in line with our duty to do so under the Equality Act 2010. We also keep anonymised statistics, this supports us to track and monitor service use, to ensure we are as accessible as possible and able to make improvements where necessary. It is a requirement of the Service that we collect this information but you cannot be identified from these statistics
- Explicit Consent: When registering with Disability Services, you will be asked to provide us with certain special categories of personal data, but it is up to you to decide if you wish to do this. Please note, however, that if you do not provide us with complete information, we may be unable to offer you a full range of services.
Where do we get your personal data from?
- From you, when you register with Disability Services via the My Bradford Support referral form and when you contact us via email, phone or post, or when you provide us with details, for example at meetings with our staff.
- At Information Days or Open Days;
- From medical, psychological or health and social care professionals, or those providing you with evidence of your disability, when you have given permission for them to contact us;
- From other parts of the University, if you share that you have a disability and ask for your information to be shared with us;
- From Assessment Centres regarding your Study Needs Assessment, when you have given permission for this information to be shared; and
- From third party sources such as UCAS, Research Councils, SFE, Disabled Students Allowance, sponsors, placement providers, parents/guardians and schools/colleges.
- From online screening company PICO when you choose to complete the online screening process QuickScan or Quickscreen.
- When we obtain personal data about you from third party sources, we will look to ensure that the third party has lawful authority to provide us with your personal data.
Who else do we pass this information on to?
- Student support assistants (including relevant self-employed staff or agencies providing support assistant work).
- Educational/clinical psychologists
- Funding bodies (Including Student Finance England)
- Other university staff such as Personal Academic Tutors/Module Leaders/Exams Team/ wider Student Life and Wellbeing Team/ Library staff or those relevant to implement your LSP and ensure reasonable adjustments or other support are put in place.
- Sometimes, in extreme circumstances, the University will have to release information to protect your interests or the interests of others e.g. in medical emergencies. In addition, if a Disability Adviser has reason to believe that a client or a third party is at serious risk of harm they may consider talking to a professional outside of the service, e.g. the GP or some other agency. Wherever possible this would be discussed with the client first.
Automated individual decision making, including profiling
This is where we make decisions automatically about you without human intervention. We may use your personal data to conduct automated individual decision making as follows:
- The provision of support via your Learner Support Profile (LSP) to share ‘Reasonable Adjustments’ required for your studies.
- If you choose to take our Screening Questionnaire, you may be offered the opportunity to complete further screening tools called QuickScan and Quickscreen.
- Direct mailing of or about student benefits and opportunities offered by or through the University and University activities and events organised for students.
- Research and statistical analysis.
How long do we keep this information for?
We keep all your electronic records for 7 years after which time they are securely deleted.
What are your rights as a data subject?
As the person whose personal data we are processing, you have certain rights in respect of that personal data. You have the right:
- To withdraw consent. However, if you do this you will no longer be able to use our service.
- To access your personal data that we process.
- To rectify inaccuracies in personal data that we hold about you.
- To request the deletion or removal of your personal data where there is no compelling reason for its continued processing.
- To restrict the processing of your personal data in certain ways.
- To obtain your personal data for reuse.
- To object certain processing of your personal data.
- To complain to the Information Commissioner’s Office about the way in which we process your personal data.
If you have any questions about this privacy notice, you can contact the University’s Data Protection Officer at data-protection@bradford.ac.uk, University of Bradford, Richmond Road, Bradford, BD7 1DP.
March 2025 The Disability Service

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/exams-intranet/documents
SOURCE_DOC: Before%20your%20Exam.pdf

Exams
Preparing for Exams
This document has been put together to help guide students during the examination period exemplifying some of the important elements that will help ensure the examination process runs as smoothly as possible.
Before your Exa
Do:
- check your individual examination timetable on your Student Portal so that you know where and when you need to go on the day of your exam.
- check the exams guidance for on-campus exams.
- contact the Exams Team ASAP if there is a problem with your timetable.
- contact the Disability Service ASAP if there is a problem with your examination adjustments.
- check out the locations of your examinations beforehand if you are unfamiliar with the building and/or campus - see campus maps.
- familiarise yourself with the examination announcements prior to the exams.
- remember to bring your UoB ID Card to all examinations for ID verification.
- remember to bring a pencil if you have an MCQ exam
- allow plenty of time to get to the examination early and get to the location at least 15 minutes before the start of the examination.
- remove your outer coats, hats/caps and/or scarf/jackets and leave such items in the designated area in the examination room before proceeding to your seat.
- sit at the seat number you have been allocated for the examination.
- check out the Counselling Service's resources on ‘Exam Stress’.
Don't:
- go to a different room other than the one you have been allocated.
- take unauthorised materials or electronic devices with you to the examination including your revision notes, mobile phone, Smart watch, earphones, or programmable calculator.
- travel to your examination at the last minute - causing extra stress if you get delayed and arrive later than expected.
During the Exam
Do:
- always obey the University Regulations on the Conduct and Invigilation of Examinations as per the Exam Procedures Guidance.
- obey the instructions given to you by the examination Invigilators.
- make sure you fill in the paperwork correctly at the start of the examination.
- remember to bring your own pens, pencils, calculators (if required) etc. with you to each examination - you will not be provided with a spare one if you forget.
- remain quiet and respectful at all times.
Don't:
- arrive late for an examination - you will not be permitted to enter the examination room if you arrive more than 15 minutes after the examination has formally started. Any candidate arriving late will be reported as a late arrival – see Late Arrival Information.
- turn over the examination question paper to see the questions until the invigilator instructs you to do so.
- talk, signal, or use any means whatever to communicate with or make contact with anyone other than the examination Invigilators.
- do anything which may disturb other candidates or in any way disrupt the smooth progress of an examination.
- leave the exam until permitted to do so as per the Exam Announcements.
At the End of the Exam
Do:
- obey the instructions given to you by the Invigilator(s).
- stop writing when told to do so.
- hand in all your work to the Invigilator along with your question paper.
- remain seated and silent until dismissed.
- take your rubbish with you when you leave.
Don't:
- take anything away from the examination which does not belong to you.
- remove a copy of the question paper from the examination room.
- make excessive noise as you leave the examination room and location - there may be other examinations in progress.

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/exams-intranet/documents
SOURCE_DOC: Calculator-Guidance-for-Students.pdf

Exams
Calculator Guidance
You are not allowed to bring programmable calculators into your exam.
If you do not know whether your calculator is programmable or non-programmable then check out the following guide. You are responsible for ensuring that your calculator is appropriate.
The examination Invigilator will check your calculator during the examination. If your calculator is programmable, it will be confiscated from you and you will be reported by the invigilator for unauthorised use of materials.
If you are unsure about your calculator, ask the examination Invigilator BEFORE the start of the examination. It may be possible to provide you with an alternative calculator if an element of doubt exists.
The main difference between a programmable and non-programmable calculator is there are no function buttons on the non-programmable calculator. Another difference that can be noticed on non-programmable calculators there are no matrix or vector functions on display.
Programmable calculators run on a Computer Algebra System (CAS), which helps to make some algebraic functions automatic. They can generally also make graphs. The easy way to tell if a calculator can make graphs is if it has a larger screen than a typical scientific calculator.
Programmable calculators: can store text or alphanumeric data input can store, manipulate or graph functions entered in symbolic form can perform operations such as differentiation, definite integration, algebraic expressions, binomial expansion, symbolic differentiation and solve systems of equations can sometimes connect to the internet or to external devices display a matrix and vector function key support a-z alphabetical input tend to be bulky and heavy compared to non-programmable calculators

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/exams-intranet/documents
SOURCE_DOC: Locations-List-re-Building.pdf

Exams
Building Location List:
- Room: R01.02 - TEACHING SPACE, Building: BRIGHT BUILDING, Block/Wing: n/a, Floor: 01 (lower ground)
- Room: R01.08 - ORANGE MEETING RM, Building: BRIGHT BUILDING, Block/Wing: n/a, Floor: 01 (lower ground)
- Room: R01.09 - RED MEETING RM, Building: BRIGHT BUILDING, Block/Wing: n/a, Floor: 01 (lower ground)
- Room: B0.02 CHESHAM, Building: CHESHAM B, Block/Wing: B wing, Floor: 0 (ground)
- Room: B0.03 CHESHAM, Building: CHESHAM B, Block/Wing: B wing, Floor: 0 (ground)
- Room: B0.04 CHESHAM, Building: CHESHAM B, Block/Wing: B wing, Floor: 0 (ground)
- Room: B0.24 CHESHAM, Building: CHESHAM B, Block/Wing: B wing, Floor: 0 (ground)
- Room: B0.25 CHESHAM, Building: CHESHAM B, Block/Wing: B wing, Floor: 0 (ground)
- Room: B0.26A CHESHAM, Building: CHESHAM B, Block/Wing: B wing, Floor: 0 (ground)
- Room: B0.26B CHESHAM, Building: CHESHAM B, Block/Wing: B wing, Floor: 0 (ground)
- Room: B0.28 LAB, Building: CHESHAM B, Block/Wing: B wing, Floor: 0 (ground)
- Room: B0.30 PHYSIOSPORT PRACT CHESHAM, Building: CHESHAM B, Block/Wing: B wing, Floor: 0 (ground)
- Room: B1.26 LAB CHESHAM, Building: CHESHAM B, Block/Wing: B wing, Floor: 1 (1st floor)
- Room: B1.28A LAB CHESHAM, Building: CHESHAM B, Block/Wing: B wing, Floor: 1 (1st floor)
- Room: B2.35A - MEETING RM, Building: CHESHAM B, Block/Wing: B wing, Floor: 2 (2nd floor)
- Room: B4.01 CHESHAM, Building: CHESHAM B, Block/Wing: B wing, Floor: 4 (4th floor)
- Room: B4.02 CHESHAM, Building: CHESHAM B, Block/Wing: B wing, Floor: 4 (4th floor)
- Room: C0 floor LABS, Building: CHESHAM C, Block/Wing: C wing, Floor: 0 (ground)
- Room: C0.02 (WET LAB), Building: CHESHAM C, Block/Wing: C wing, Floor: 0 (ground)
- Room: C0.03 (QUIET LAB), Building: CHESHAM C, Block/Wing: C wing, Floor: 0 (ground)
- Room: C0.04 (DRY LAB), Building: CHESHAM C, Block/Wing: C wing, Floor: 0 (ground)
- Room: C01.02 - LAB, Building: CHESHAM C, Block/Wing: C wing, Floor: 01 (lower ground)
- Room: C01.05 - LAB, Building: CHESHAM C, Block/Wing: C wing, Floor: 01 (lower ground)
- Room: C01.14 CHESHAM, Building: CHESHAM C, Block/Wing: C wing, Floor: 01 (lower ground)
- Room: C01.15 - LAB, Building: CHESHAM C, Block/Wing: C wing, Floor: 01 (lower ground)
- Room: C01.16 - LAB, Building: CHESHAM C, Block/Wing: C wing, Floor: 01 (lower ground)
- Room: C01.17 - LAB, Building: CHESHAM C, Block/Wing: C wing, Floor: 01 (lower ground)
- Room: C01.18 - LAB, Building: CHESHAM C, Block/Wing: C wing, Floor: 01 (lower ground)
- Room: C1.03 CHESHAM, Building: CHESHAM C, Block/Wing: C wing, Floor: 1 (1st floor)
- Room: C1.03A CHESHAM, Building: CHESHAM C, Block/Wing: C wing, Floor: 1 (1st floor)
- Room: C1.06 CHESHAM, Building: CHESHAM C, Block/Wing: C wing, Floor: 1 (1st floor)
- Room: C1.08 CHESHAM, Building: CHESHAM C, Block/Wing: C wing, Floor: 1 (1st floor)
- Room: C2.03 CHESHAM, Building: CHESHAM C, Block/Wing: C wing, Floor: 2 (2nd floor)
- Room: C2.06 CHESHAM, Building: CHESHAM C, Block/Wing: C wing, Floor: 2 (2nd floor)
- Room: C2.07 CHESHAM, Building: CHESHAM C, Block/Wing: C wing, Floor: 2 (2nd floor)
- Room: C2.08 CHESHAM, Building: CHESHAM C, Block/Wing: C wing, Floor: 2 (2nd floor)
- Room: C2.10 CHESHAM, Building: CHESHAM C, Block/Wing: C wing, Floor: 2 (2nd floor)
- Room: C3.07 - IT SUITE CHESHAM, Building: CHESHAM C, Block/Wing: C wing, Floor: 3 (3rd floor)
- Room: C3.08 - IT SUITE CHESHAM, Building: CHESHAM C, Block/Wing: C wing, Floor: 3 (3rd floor)
- Room: C3.09 - IT SUITE CHESHAM, Building: CHESHAM C, Block/Wing: C wing, Floor: 3 (3rd floor)
- Room: C3.10 - IT SUITE CHESHAM, Building: CHESHAM C, Block/Wing: C wing, Floor: 3 (3rd floor)
- Room: C4.01 CHESHAM, Building: CHESHAM C, Block/Wing: C wing, Floor: 4 (4th floor)
- Room: C4.02 CHESHAM, Building: CHESHAM C, Block/Wing: C wing, Floor: 4 (4th floor)
- Room: A0.03 CHILD SIM, Building: HORTON A, Block/Wing: A wing, Floor: 0 (ground)
- Room: A0.04 WET LAB, Building: HORTON A, Block/Wing: A wing, Floor: 0 (ground)
- Room: A0.10 CLIN PRAC S1, Building: HORTON A, Block/Wing: A wing, Floor: 0 (ground)
- Room: A0.11 CLIN PRAC S2, Building: HORTON A, Block/Wing: A wing, Floor: 0 (ground)
- Room: A0.12 PHYSIO PRAC S1, Building: HORTON A, Block/Wing: A wing, Floor: 0 (ground)
- Room: A0.13 PHYSIO PRAC S2, Building: HORTON A, Block/Wing: A wing, Floor: 0 (ground)
- Room: A0.17 (X-RAY ROOM), Building: HORTON A, Block/Wing: A wing, Floor: 0 (ground)
- Room: A1.01 MOVEMENT LAB, Building: HORTON A, Block/Wing: A wing, Floor: 1 (1st floor)
- Room: A1.02 MOV GYM & RES, Building: HORTON A, Block/Wing: A wing, Floor: 1 (1st floor)
- Room: A1.03 PARAMEDICMW P, Building: HORTON A, Block/Wing: A wing, Floor: 1 (1st floor)
- Room: A1.04 QUIET ROOM, Building: HORTON A, Block/Wing: A wing, Floor: 1 (1st floor)
- Room: A1.06 MATERNITY PRAC S, Building: HORTON A, Block/Wing: A wing, Floor: 1 (1st floor)
- Room: A1.12 (PACS), Building: HORTON A, Block/Wing: A wing, Floor: 1 (1st floor)
- Room: A2.01 OT HOME FROM HOME S, Building: HORTON A, Block/Wing: A wing, Floor: 2 (2nd floor)
- Room: A2.02 OT ARTS & CRAFTS S, Building: HORTON A, Block/Wing: A wing, Floor: 2 (2nd floor)
- Room: A2.03 QUIET ROOM, Building: HORTON A, Block/Wing: A wing, Floor: 2 (2nd floor)
- Room: A2.04 QUIET ROOM, Building: HORTON A, Block/Wing: A wing, Floor: 2 (2nd floor)
- Room: A3.01 EXECUTIVE DEV CENTRE, Building: HORTON A, Block/Wing: A wing, Floor: 3 (3rd floor)
- Room: A3.03 EXEC TEACH S, Building: HORTON A, Block/Wing: A wing, Floor: 3 (3rd floor)
- Room: A3.04 EXEC TEACH S, Building: HORTON A, Block/Wing: A wing, Floor: 3 (3rd floor)
- Room: A3.05 QUIET ROOM, Building: HORTON A, Block/Wing: A wing, Floor: 3 (3rd floor)
- Room: A3.06 QUIET ROOM, Building: HORTON A, Block/Wing: A wing, Floor: 3 (3rd floor)
- Room: A4.09 MEETING ROOM, Building: HORTON A, Block/Wing: A wing, Floor: 4 (4th floor)
- Room: D0.01 HORTON, Building: HORTON D, Block/Wing: A wing, Floor: 0 (ground)
- Room: D0.02 HORTON, Building: HORTON D, Block/Wing: D wing, Floor: 0 (ground)
- Room: D0.09 HORTON, Building: HORTON D, Block/Wing: D wing, Floor: 0 (ground)
- Room: D0.10 HORTON, Building: HORTON D, Block/Wing: D wing, Floor: 0 (ground)
- Room: D0.15 HORTON, Building: HORTON D, Block/Wing: D wing, Floor: 0 (ground)
- Room: D0.16 HORTON, Building: HORTON D, Block/Wing: D wing, Floor: 0 (ground)
- Room: D0.17 HORTON, Building: HORTON D, Block/Wing: D wing, Floor: 0 (ground)
- Room: D0.18 HORTON, Building: HORTON D, Block/Wing: D wing, Floor: 0 (ground)
- Room: D0.19 HORTON, Building: HORTON D, Block/Wing: D wing, Floor: 0 (ground)
- Room: D0.20 HORTON, Building: HORTON D, Block/Wing: D wing, Floor: 0 (ground)
- Room: D0.23 HORTON, Building: HORTON D, Block/Wing: D wing, Floor: 0 (ground)
- Room: D0.24 HORTON, Building: HORTON D, Block/Wing: D wing, Floor: 0 (ground)
- Room: D0.26 HORTON, Building: HORTON D, Block/Wing: D wing, Floor: 0 (ground)
- Room: D01.25 HORTON, Building: HORTON D, Block/Wing: D wing, Floor: 01 (lower ground)
- Room: D01.27 - LECTURE THEATRE HORTON, Building: HORTON D, Block/Wing: D wing, Floor: 01 (lower ground)
- Room: D01.28 HORTON, Building: HORTON D, Block/Wing: D wing, Floor: 01 (lower ground)
- Room: D01.29 HORTON, Building: HORTON D, Block/Wing: D wing, Floor: 01 (lower ground)
- Room: D1.01 HORTON, Building: HORTON D, Block/Wing: D wing, Floor: 1 (1st floor)
- Room: D1.03 HORTON, Building: HORTON D, Block/Wing: D wing, Floor: 1 (1st floor)
- Room: D1.03/26 LAB, Building: HORTON D, Block/Wing: D wing, Floor: 1 (1st floor)
- Room: D1.21 HORTON, Building: HORTON D, Block/Wing: D wing, Floor: 1 (1st floor)
- Room: D1.24 HORTON, Building: HORTON D, Block/Wing: D wing, Floor: 1 (1st floor)
- Room: D1.26 HORTON, Building: HORTON D, Block/Wing: D wing, Floor: 1 (1st floor)
- Room: D1.27 HORTON, Building: HORTON D, Block/Wing: D wing, Floor: 1 (1st floor)
- Room: D2.03 DRAWING & DESIGN, Building: HORTON D, Block/Wing: D wing, Floor: 2 (2nd floor)
- Room: D2.04 HORTON D, Building: HORTON D, Block/Wing: D wing, Floor: 2 (2nd floor)
- Room: D2.25 MOTION CAPTURE SUITE, Building: HORTON D, Block/Wing: D wing, Floor: 2 (2nd floor)
- Room: D4.17 DESIGN ROOM, HORTON D, Building: HORTON D, Block/Wing: D wing, Floor: 4 (4th floor)
- Room: D5.05 HORTON, Building: HORTON D, Block/Wing: D wing, Floor: 5 (5th floor)
- Room: D5.11 SOUNDSCAPE, Building: HORTON D, Block/Wing: D wing, Floor: 5 (5th floor)
- Room: HORT/D1.01/03 LAB, Building: HORTON D, Block/Wing: D wing, Floor: 1 (1st floor)
- Room: HORT/D1.01/03/26 LAB, Building: HORTON D, Block/Wing: D wing, Floor: 1 (1st floor)
- Room: HORTON D1.01/26 LAB, Building: HORTON D, Block/Wing: D wing, Floor: 1 (1st floor)
- Room: 3.18 ICT, Building: INST OF CANCER THERAPEUTICS, Block/Wing: Institute of Cancer Therapeutics, Floor: 3 (3rd floor)
- Room: 0.11 LAB, Building: INST OF CANCER THERAPEUTICS, Block/Wing: Institute of Cancer Therapeutics, Floor: 0 (ground)
- Room: 0.13 LAB, Building: INST OF CANCER THERAPEUTICS, Block/Wing: Institute of Cancer Therapeutics, Floor: 0 (ground)
- Room: 0.17 LAB, Building: INST OF CANCER THERAPEUTICS, Block/Wing: Institute of Cancer Therapeutics, Floor: 0 (ground)
- Room: 1.05 LAB, Building: INST OF CANCER THERAPEUTICS, Block/Wing: Institute of Cancer Therapeutics, Floor: 1 (1st floor)
- Room: 1.06 LAB, Building: INST OF CANCER THERAPEUTICS, Block/Wing: Institute of Cancer Therapeutics, Floor: 1 (1st floor)
- Room: 1.08 LAB, Building: INST OF CANCER THERAPEUTICS, Block/Wing: Institute of Cancer Therapeutics, Floor: 1 (1st floor)
- Room: 1.09 LAB, Building: INST OF CANCER THERAPEUTICS, Block/Wing: Institute of Cancer Therapeutics, Floor: 1 (1st floor)
- Room: 3.15 ICT BUILDING, Building: INST OF CANCER THERAPEUTICS, Block/Wing: Institute of Cancer Therapeutics, Floor: 3 (3rd floor)
- Room: 3.17 LAB, Building: INST OF CANCER THERAPEUTICS, Block/Wing: Institute of Cancer Therapeutics, Floor: 3 (3rd floor)
- Room: 01.44 - IT SUITE JBP LIBRARY, Building: JBP (JB Priestley) LIBRARY, Block/Wing: n/a, Floor: 01 (lower ground)
- Room: 01.53 - IT SUITE JBP LIBRARY, Building: JBP (JB Priestley) LIBRARY, Block/Wing: n/a, Floor: 01 (lower ground)
- Room: 0.10 (MOLECULAR ARCH LAB), Building: NORCROFT BUILDING (aka IPI), Block/Wing: n/a, Floor: 0 (ground)
- Room: 0.10B (MOLECULAR ARCH LAB), Building: NORCROFT BUILDING (aka IPI), Block/Wing: n/a, Floor: 0 (ground)
- Room: 0.12 (PREP LAB), Building: NORCROFT BUILDING (aka IPI), Block/Wing: n/a, Floor: 0 (ground)
- Room: 0.15 (VIBRAMAN SPEC LAB), Building: NORCROFT BUILDING (aka IPI), Block/Wing: n/a, Floor: 0 (ground)
- Room: 0.17 (MASS SPEC LAB), Building: NORCROFT BUILDING (aka IPI), Block/Wing: n/a, Floor: 0 (ground)
- Room: 0.17 NORCROFT BLDG (2), Building: NORCROFT BUILDING (aka IPI), Block/Wing: n/a, Floor: 0 (ground)
- Room: 01.03 (X-RAY DIFFRACTION), Building: NORCROFT BUILDING (aka IPI), Block/Wing: n/a, Floor: 01 (lower ground)
- Room: 01.07 (THERMAL ANALYSIS), Building: NORCROFT BUILDING (aka IPI), Block/Wing: n/a, Floor: 01 (lower ground)
- Room: 01.10 (SCANNING ELECTRON MICROSCOPY), Building: NORCROFT BUILDING (aka IPI), Block/Wing: /a, Floor: n01 (lower ground)
- Room: 1.12 (CHROMA & MASS SPEC LAB), Building: NORCROFT BUILDING (aka IPI), Block/Wing: n/a, Floor: 1 (1st floor)
- Room: 1.12 NORCROFT BLDG (2), Building: NORCROFT BUILDING (aka IPI), Block/Wing: n/a, Floor: 1 (1st floor)
- Room: 1.14 (SAMPLE PREP LAB), Building: NORCROFT BUILDING (aka IPI), Block/Wing: n/a, Floor: 1 (1st floor)
- Room: 1.14 NORCROFT BLDG (2), Building: NORCROFT BUILDING (aka IPI), Block/Wing: n/a, Floor: 1 (1st floor)
- Room: 1.16 MTG RM, Building: NORCROFT BUILDING (aka IPI), Block/Wing: n/a, Floor: 1 (1st floor)
- Room: 2.11 - MEETING RM, Building: NORCROFT BUILDING (aka IPI), Block/Wing: n/a, Floor: 2 (2nd floor)
- Room: 3.10 LAB, Building: NORCROFT BUILDING (aka IPI), Block/Wing: n/a, Floor: 3 (3rd floor)
- Room: 3.11 LAB, Building: NORCROFT BUILDING (aka IPI), Block/Wing: n/a, Floor: 3 (3rd floor)
- Room: 3.15 LAB, Building: NORCROFT BUILDING (aka IPI), Block/Wing: n/a, Floor: 3 (3rd floor)
- Room: NC AUDITORIUM TBL (N01.02), Building: NORCROFT CENTRE (NCC), Block/Wing: n/a, Floor: 01 (lower ground)
- Room: P2.01 PEMBERTON, Building: PEMBERTON, Block/Wing: n/a, Floor: 2 (2nd floor)
- Room: P2.02 PEMBERTON, Building: PEMBERTON, Block/Wing: n/a, Floor: 2 (2nd floor)
- Room: P2.10 - COURT RM PEMBERTON, Building: PEMBERTON, Block/Wing: n/a, Floor: 2 (2nd floor)
- Room: P2.11 PEMBERTON, Building: PEMBERTON, Block/Wing: n/a, Floor: 2 (2nd floor)
- Room: P2.12 - IT SUITE PEMBERTON, Building: PEMBERTON, Block/Wing: n/a, Floor: 2 (2nd floor)
- Room: P2.13 PEMBERTON, Building: PEMBERTON, Block/Wing: n/a, Floor: 2 (2nd floor)
- Room: NE0.100 PHOENIX, Building: PHOENIX NE, Block/Wing: North East block, Floor: 0 (ground)
- Room: NE0.98 PHOENIX, Building: PHOENIX NE, Block/Wing: North East block, Floor: 0 (ground)
- Room: NE0.99 PHOENIX, Building: PHOENIX NE, Block/Wing: North East block, Floor: 0 (ground)
- Room: 01.22 PHOENIX SW, Building: PHOENIX SW, Block/Wing: South West block, Floor: 01 (lower ground)
- Room: 01.32 PHOENIX SW, Building: PHOENIX SW, Block/Wing: South West block, Floor: 01 (lower ground)
- Room: 1.02 PHOENIX SW, Building: PHOENIX SW, Block/Wing: South West block, Floor: 1 (1st floor)
- Room: SW0.10 SEMINAR, Building: PHOENIX SW, Block/Wing: South West block, Floor: 0 (ground)
- Room: SW0.24 MOVEMENT LAB, Building: PHOENIX SW, Block/Wing: South West block, Floor: 0 (ground)
- Room: SW0.25 WALK, Building: PHOENIX SW, Block/Wing: South West block, Floor: 0 (ground)
- Room: SW0.26 PHYSIO TREATMENT, Building: PHOENIX SW, Block/Wing: South West block, Floor: 0 (ground)
- Room: SW0.27 PHYSIO CONSU - LECTURE THE, Building: PHOENIX SW, Block/Wing: South West block, Floor: 0 (ground)
- Room: SW0.28 PHYSIO TREATMENT, Building: PHOENIX SW, Block/Wing: South West block, Floor: 0 (ground)
- Room: SW0.29 PHYSIO CONSU - LECTURE THE, Building: PHOENIX SW, Block/Wing: South West block, Floor: 0 (ground)
- Room: SW0.30 MEDICINES RESEARCH LAB, Building: PHOENIX SW, Block/Wing: South West block, Floor: 0 (ground)
- Room: SW0.32 WORK, Building: PHOENIX SW, Block/Wing: South West block, Floor: 0 (ground)
- Room: SW0.32A-0.55 EYE CL, Building: PHOENIX SW, Block/Wing: South West block, Floor: 0 (ground)
- Room: SW01.18 OPT & VIS LAB 16, Building: PHOENIX SW, Block/Wing: South West block, Floor: 01 (lower ground)
- Room: SW01.19 OPT & VIS LAB, Building: PHOENIX SW, Block/Wing: South West block, Floor: 01 (lower ground)
- Room: SW01.25 OPT & VIS LAB, Building: PHOENIX SW, Block/Wing: South West block, Floor: 01 (lower ground)
- Room: SW01.26 OPT & VIS LAB, Building: PHOENIX SW, Block/Wing: South West block, Floor: 01 (lower ground)
- Room: SW01.27 OPT & VIS LAB, Building: PHOENIX SW, Block/Wing: South West block, Floor: 01 (lower ground)
- Room: SW01.28 OPT & VIS LAB, Building: PHOENIX SW, Block/Wing: South West block, Floor: 01 (lower ground)
- Room: SW01.29A OCULAR EXAM LAB, Building: PHOENIX SW, Block/Wing: South West block, Floor: 01 (lower ground)
- Room: SW01.31 OPTICS LAB, Building: PHOENIX SW, Block/Wing: South West block, Floor: 01 (lower ground)
- Room: SW01.33 REFRACTION LAB, Building: PHOENIX SW, Block/Wing: South West block, Floor: 01 (lower ground)
- Room: SW1.13 GAIT, Building: PHOENIX SW, Block/Wing: South West block, Floor: 1 (1st floor)
- Room: C7 RICHMOND, Building: RICHMOND, Block/Wing: n/a, Floor: C (1st floor)
- Room: C8 RICHMOND, Building: RICHMOND, Block/Wing: n/a, Floor: C (1st floor)
- Room: C9 RICHMOND, Building: RICHMOND, Block/Wing: n/a, Floor: C (1st floor)
- Room: D4 - JSB RICHMOND, Building: RICHMOND, Block/Wing: n/a, Floor: D (2nd floor)
- Room: D52 - SMALL HALL, RICHMOND, Building: RICHMOND, Block/Wing: n/a, Floor: D (2nd floor)
- Room: D53 - GREAT HALL, RICHMOND, Building: RICHMOND, Block/Wing: n/a, Floor: D (2nd floor)
- Room: E58 RICHMOND, Building: RICHMOND, Block/Wing: n/a, Floor: E (3rd floor)
- Room: E59 LECTURE THEATRE, Building: RICHMOND, Block/Wing: n/a, Floor: E (3rd floor)
- Room: E84 PSYCHOLOGY LAB RICHMOND, Building: RICHMOND, Block/Wing: n/a, Floor: E (3rd floor)
- Room: E92 - RICHMOND, Building: RICHMOND, Block/Wing: n/a, Floor: E (3rd floor)
- Room: F21 RICHMOND, Building: RICHMOND, Block/Wing: n/a, Floor: F (4th floor)
- Room: F42/41 PC CLUSTER RICHMOND, Building: RICHMOND, Block/Wing: n/a, Floor: F (4th floor)
- Room: F34 RICHMOND TBL, Building: RICHMOND, Block/Wing: n/a, Floor: F (4th floor)
- Room: F8 RICHMOND, Building: RICHMOND, Block/Wing: n/a, Floor: F (4th floor)
- Room: G11 RICHMOND, Building: RICHMOND, Block/Wing: n/a, Floor: G (5th floor)
- Room: G11/12 - LAB, Building: RICHMOND, Block/Wing: n/a, Floor: G (5th floor)
- Room: G12 RICHMOND, Building: RICHMOND, Block/Wing: n/a, Floor: G (5th floor)
- Room: G21 RICHMOND, Building: RICHMOND, Block/Wing: n/a, Floor: G (5th floor)
- Room: G4 - LAB RICHMOND, Building: RICHMOND, Block/Wing: n/a, Floor: G (5th floor)
- Room: G4/5/6 - LAB RICHMOND, Building: RICHMOND, Block/Wing: n/a, Floor: G (5th floor)
- Room: G5 RICHMOND, Building: RICHMOND, Block/Wing: n/a, Floor: G (5th floor)
- Room: G5/6 RICHMOND, Building: RICHMOND, Block/Wing: n/a, Floor: G (5th floor)
- Room: G6 RICHMOND, Building: RICHMOND, Block/Wing: n/a, Floor: G (5th floor)
- Room: H2 MICROSCOPES LAB, Building: RICHMOND, Block/Wing: n/a, Floor: H (6th floor)
- Room: H33 RICHMOND, Building: RICHMOND, Block/Wing: n/a, Floor: H (6th floor)
- Room: H34 RICHMOND, Building: RICHMOND, Block/Wing: n/a, Floor: H (6th floor)
- Room: J11- LAB RICHMOND, Building: RICHMOND, Block/Wing: n/a, Floor: J (7th floor)
- Room: J12 - LAB RICHMOND, Building: RICHMOND, Block/Wing: n/a, Floor: J (7th floor)
- Room: J12/J16 RICHMOND, Building: RICHMOND, Block/Wing: n/a, Floor: J (7th floor)
- Room: J16 - LAB RICHMOND, Building: RICHMOND, Block/Wing: n/a, Floor: J (7th floor)
- Room: J19 - LECTURE THEATRE, Building: RICHMOND, Block/Wing: n/a, Floor: J (7th floor)
- Room: J23 - LAB, Building: RICHMOND, Block/Wing: n/a, Floor: J (7th floor)
- Room: J26 - LAB, Building: RICHMOND, Block/Wing: n/a, Floor: J (7th floor)
- Room: J27 - LAB, Building: RICHMOND, Block/Wing: n/a, Floor: J (7th floor)
- Room: J28 - LAB, Building: RICHMOND, Block/Wing: n/a, Floor: J (7th floor)
- Room: J31 PC CLUSTER RICHMOND, Building: RICHMOND, Block/Wing: n/a, Floor: J (7th floor)
- Room: J7 - LAB, Building: RICHMOND, Block/Wing: n/a, Floor: J (7th floor)
- Room: J7J8J12J16 LAB, Building: RICHMOND, Block/Wing: n/a, Floor: J (7th floor)
- Room: J8 - LAB, Building: RICHMOND, Block/Wing: n/a, Floor: J (7th floor)
- Room: J8J12J16 - LAB, Building: RICHMOND, Block/Wing: n/a, Floor: J (7th floor)
- Room: J8J16 - LAB, Building: RICHMOND, Block/Wing: n/a, Floor: J (7th floor)
- Room: K12 - LAB, Building: RICHMOND, Block/Wing: n/a, Floor: K (8th floor)
- Room: K13 - LAB, Building: RICHMOND, Block/Wing: n/a, Floor: K (8th floor)
- Room: K6 - LAB, Building: RICHMOND, Block/Wing: n/a, Floor: K (8th floor)
- Room: K8 - LAB, Building: RICHMOND, Block/Wing: n/a, Floor: K (8th floor)
- Room: L18 (KEITH MANCHESTER BONES LAB), Building: RICHMOND, Block/Wing: n/a, Floor: L (9th floor)
- Room: L19 - LAB, Building: RICHMOND, Block/Wing: n/a, Floor: L (9th floor)
- Room: L24 PC CLUSTER, Building: RICHMOND, Block/Wing: n/a, Floor: L (9th floor)
- Room: L29 RICHMOND, Building: RICHMOND, Block/Wing: n/a, Floor: L (9th floor)
- Room: L4 - ISTAN SIMULATION SUITE, Building: RICHMOND, Block/Wing: n/a, Floor: L (9th floor)
- Room: L5 - PHARMACY LAB, Building: RICHMOND, Block/Wing: n/a, Floor: L (9th floor)
- Room: L6 FLOOR RESOURCE CENTRE, Building: RICHMOND, Block/Wing: n/a, Floor: L (9th floor)
- Room: M8 - LAB, Building: RICHMOND, Block/Wing: n/a, Floor: M (10th floor)
- Room: M9 - LAB, Building: RICHMOND, Block/Wing: n/a, Floor: M (10th floor)
- Room: N15 - LAB, Building: RICHMOND, Block/Wing: n/a, Floor: N (11th floor)
- Room: N17 - 2 BAY WARD LAB, Building: RICHMOND, Block/Wing: n/a, Floor: N (11th floor)
- Room: N3 RICHMOND, Building: RICHMOND, Block/Wing: n/a, Floor: N (11th floor)
- Room: N4 RICHMOND, Building: RICHMOND, Block/Wing: n/a, Floor: N (11th floor)
- Room: WB19 RICHMOND, Building: RICHMOND, Block/Wing: Workshop Block (WB), Floor: Basement
- Room: WB23 RICHMOND WB TBL, Building: RICHMOND WB, Block/Wing: Workshop Block (WB), Floor: Basement
- Room: WB24 RICHMOND WB, Building: RICHMOND WB, Block/Wing: Workshop Block (WB), Floor: Basement
- Room: WG07 - RICHMOND LAB, Building: RICHMOND WG, Block/Wing: Workshop (WG) - FoEI, Floor: Ground floor
- Room: WG12 - RICHMOND LAB, Building: RICHMOND WG, Block/Wing: Workshop (WG) - FoEI, Floor: Ground floor
- Room: WG23 - RICHMOND LAB PC & BENCH, Building: RICHMOND WG, Block/Wing: Workshop (WG) - FoEI, Floor: Ground floor
- Room: WG37 - RICHMOND LAB, Building: RICHMOND WG, Block/Wing: Workshop (WG) - FoEI, Floor: Ground floor
- Room: SC0.44 STUDENT CENTRAL, Building: STUDENT CENTRAL, Block/Wing: n/a, Floor: 0 (ground)
- Room: SC0.48 STUDENT CENTRAL, Building: STUDENT CENTRAL, Block/Wing: n/a, Floor: 0 (ground)
- Room: SC0.49 STUDENT CENTRAL, Building: STUDENT CENTRAL, Block/Wing: n/a, Floor: 0 (ground)
- Room: SC0.50 STUDENT CENTRAL, Building: STUDENT CENTRAL, Block/Wing: n/a, Floor: 0 (ground)
- Room: SC0.51 STUDENT CENTRAL, Building: STUDENT CENTRAL, Block/Wing: n/a, Floor: 0 (ground)

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/exams-intranet/documents
SOURCE_DOC: Ramadan.pdf

Exams
Exams during Ramadan
Studying for Exams whilst fasting during Ramadan
Are you partaking in religious observances during the month of Ramadan?
Obligatory fasting in Ramadan is an important event in the Islamic calendar and an integral part of your faith. This means that you need to include the preparation for your examinations into your everyday activities during Ramadan.
In order to manage studying whilst fasting you will need to prepare effectively for your examinations. Short gentle breaks between your scheduled examinations will help to increase strength of mind in all areas of your life, including food, sleeping and effective use of time. Check out this weblink for tips on how to stay healthy during fasting.
The University does not deem the event of Ramadan to be a legitimate extenuating circumstance or reason for claiming extenuating circumstances for examinations unless fasting significantly affects your health and/or you have a medical condition which may impair your performance or prevent you from attending an examination. In such cases you will need to provide documentary evidence to support your claim for extenuating circumstances to be accepted with good cause.

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/health-safety-and-wellbeing-intranet/documents
SOURCE_DOC: Assistance dogs position statement_.pdf

Health and Safety
Position Statement on Assistance Animals at the University of Bradford
Accredited Assistance dogs
Accredited assistance dogs are dogs that have been trained by accredited member organisations of Assistance Dogs International (ADI) and the International Guide Dog Federation (IGDF). Assistance Dogs UK (ADUK) is a coalition of eight assistance dog charities that have successfully passed an extensive accreditation process that covers all aspects of their training and administration – ensuring they meet the exacting standards set by ADI and IGDF.
The University of Bradford permits accredited assistance dogs to accompany their owner into all areas of the University including office areas, library and food outlets.
Currently the following organisations are registered full members of ADUK *:
- Autism Dogs CIC
- Canine Partners
- Dog A.I.D
- Dogs for Good
- Guide Dogs
- Hearing Dogs for Deaf People
- Medical Detection Dogs
- Service Dogs UK
- Support Dogs
- The Seeing Dogs Alliance
Therapy/Emotional Support Animals ‘Therapy Animals’ or ‘Emotional Support Animals’ are used to support people with a range of support needs including mental health and autism. However, these animals are not specifically trained to carry out any particular task, as is the case with assistance dogs, but rather their role is to be a source of comfort or support to their owner/handler.
While the University of Bradford understands the benefits that having a therapy animal can bring, any animal accompanying a student, staff member or visitor to the University must be an ADUK registered assistance dog in order to be allowed into University premises. Any unregistered therapy/emotional support animals will not be allowed into University premises.
* It is acknowledged that there are other organisations which train assistance animals and if relevant documentation can be provided, these will be considered on an individual basis.
** a request to have any animal on campus could be considered on a case-by-case basis.

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/health-safety-and-wellbeing-intranet/documents
SOURCE_DOC: Assistance to Evacuate.pdf

Health and Safety
Assistance to Evacuate
Introduction
For many years under disability laws the focus has always been on building accessibility, it is only in recent years with the introduction of revised fire safety legislation that there has been more emphasis on ‘egress-ability’ of buildings. Building occupiers and operators now need to make the necessary arrangement to ensure that all those people that can be reasonably expected to be in the premises are able to escape.
Scope
This code shall apply to all University buildings, owned, leased or managed. This code of practice is heavily dependent upon all building users, academic staff, support staff etc. playing a role in the safety of colleagues and fellow building users.
General Principles
In order to safeguard corridors and exit routes that are used as part of building evacuation procedures it is essential that they remain free from combustible materials that could hinder evacuation procedures.
The Regulatory Reform (Fire Safety) Order, (FSO), Building Regulations and associated Approved Documents require escape routes and corridors be kept free from obstructions and that they are able to be used safely at all material times. To achieve this it is essential we have certain rules and guidance to ensure the University meets its statutory obligations.
A fire in a corridor or staircase could have devastating consequences with people becoming trapped within their offices, work or study areas.
General Provisions
As part of its approach in making provision for persons who may need assistance the University has adopted a number of different approaches, these include but are not limited to:
- Learner Support Programmes;
- Deaf Alerter;
- Refuge Areas with Emergency Voice Communication (EVC’s) systems;
- Protected Staircases;
- Personal Emergency Evacuation Plans (PEEP’s);
- Generic Emergency Evacuation Plans (GEEP’s);
- Building Compartmentation;
- Emergency Wardens;
- Evacuation Chairs.
Whilst it is recognised that not all disabilities are visible and obvious under health and safety and fire safety legislation we all have a responsibility for our own safety and that of our colleagues.
If staff, students or visitors feel they would need assistance to evacuate in an emergency they must declare this, this can be in confidence with assurances given that any information that needs to be shared e.g. with a buddy or security etc. the individuals consent will first be sought.
The PEEP process is confidential and concentrates on people’s abilities rather than disabilities.
Lifts
Lifts should not be used during a fire alarm activation. However, there are a number of lifts that have been identified and assessed as being useable during the initial phase of an evacuation, these lifts are reserved for the use of persons with physical impairments and as part of the PEEP process will be identified to individuals and their buddy/carer etc. as may be appropriate.
Staff, students and visitors who do not have a physical impairment must not try to use lifts during these periods.
User Groups
Staff
Staff who may need assistance to evacuate may be identified at the interview stage or when appointed, Managers or Supervisors must ensure that personnel are instructed to contact the H & S department where a PEEP would be developed around their needs and abilities.
Any existing members of staff who develop either an acute or chronic problem that may affect their ability to get themselves out of a building, should also be instructed to contact the H & S team.
Directors, Heads of Department and Line Managers are in a position of being able to identify persons who may need assistance to evacuate, whether temporary or permanent, they should bring this to the attention of the HSW department to enable a meeting to be arranged with the individual so that a PEEP can be completed. This process would look at all those with a mobility and or physical impairment, but would also be extended to encompass others with disability issues and their ability to evacuate.
Students
The current process for identifying students who may need a Personal Emergency Evacuation Plan (PEEP) starts when they apply for a place at the University, the information is entered on the SAINT database, if they tick yes to having a disability they are sent an email inviting them to make an appointment to meet with the Disability Office.
Students who attend the appointment with the Disability Office will be given advice and an emergency evacuation plan at that time. However, if they do not contact the Disability Office or do not declare the fact that they may need assistance to evacuate in an emergency, or their disability has occurred since completing their application or is of a temporary nature e.g. broken limb, we would not be in a position to offer the assistance they may need.
As academic staff are in a position of being able to identify persons who may need assistance to evacuate, whether temporary or permanent, they should bring this to the attention of their line manager who in turn should contact the HSW department. A meeting would then be arranged with the student where a PEEP would be agreed with the individual. This process would look at all those with a mobility and or physical impairment, but would also be extended to encompass others with disability issues and their ability to evacuate.
Service Users
Where people attend the University in the capacity of a service user e.g. attendance at a clinic they should be provided with a Generic Emergency Evacuation Plan (GEEP).
Visitors
Staff receiving visitors to the University for meetings or other such activities are responsible for ensuring their guest(s) are able to evacuate safely. The HSW department or ServiceNow portal can be used to download standard GEEP’s.

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/health-safety-and-wellbeing-intranet/documents
SOURCE_DOC: Chemical Storage in Laboratories Guidance - February 2024.pdf

Health and Safety
Chemical Storage in Laboratories
1. Introduction
This is a guidance document that explains how to ensure that lab users fully comply with Control of Substances Hazardous to Health (COSHH) Policy and the Dangerous Substances and Explosive Atmospheres (DSEAR) Policy, when storing reagents in laboratories.
2. Scope
This guidance applies to anyone working in any laboratory or workshop at the University where either substance hazardous to health or dangerous substances are being stored.
3. Glossary
3.1 Safety Data Sheet- All suppliers of reagents and similar products must provide a safety data sheet (SDS) with the product. This is a document that lists information relating to occupational safety and health for the use of various substances and products. SDS information may include instructions for the safe use and potential hazards associated with a particular material or product, along with spill-handling procedures. The format of all SDS should follow the requirements of GHS.
3.2 GHS- Globally Harmonized System of Classification and Labelling of Chemicals- this is an internationally agreed-upon standard managed by the United Nations that was set up to replace the assortment of hazardous material classification and labelling schemes previously used around the world.
3.3 Substance Hazardous to Health- Defined in the COSHH Regulations. The term refers to any substances that are hazardous to human health. COSHH regulation 4 gives a more detailed definition.
3.4 Dangerous Substance- Defined in the DSEAR Regulations. The term refers to any vapour, gas, or dust that if mixed with air might form an explosive atmosphere. DSEAR Regulation 2 gives a more detailed definition.
4. Responsibilities
All individuals working in laboratories are expected to follow this guidance.
5. General Principles for Storing Chemicals in Labs
General
5.1 All substances that are used in laboratories and workshops must be stored in a safe manner.
5.2 The SDS should always be consulted if further information is required on storage and chemical incompatibilities of a particular chemical substance.
5.3 There should not be an excessive about of reagents stored in labs. There should be no more than 10 litres flammable liquids stored on benches.
5.3 There should be no more than 50 litres of flammable liquid stored in any one lab. Any excess should be stored in the designated solvent store.
5.4 Breakable containers, particularly those containing liquids, should be stored below shoulder height. To reduce the risk of spillages, escape of fumes etc. it important that all containers are sealed correctly, this may be by means of ensuring a screw top lid is tight. (N.B. if the chemical gives off a gas ensure a ‘breather cap’ is fitted to prevent an explosion).
5.5 Bottles containing hazardous substances must never be carried by the top. Always carry Winchester bottles (2.5 litres) in carriers or baskets that offer support to the base of the bottle.
5.6 Any hazardous substances that are no longer used must be disposed of appropriately.
Labelling of Checmical Containers
5.7 New reagents should, were possible, be kept, in their original containers. The original labelling must be preserved on those containers.
5.8 All hazardous substances should have a label on them identifying their hazard category (e.g. flammable, corrosive, oxidising, toxic etc.). The label should be compatible with the GHS for labelling.
5.9 When reagents are transferred to new containers or if new solutions or mixtures are created, they must be clearly labelled with their contents, the date when the mixture/solution was created, the name of the person who created and if possible, a date when the contents will be discarded.
Segregation
5.10 It may be necessary to segregate incompatible substances to prevent dangerous interactions.
5.11 The Appendix has a summary of hazardous substances that should be segregated is listed below to assist storage.
5.12 Issues worthy of special note as needing to be avoided include:
5.12.1. Flammable solvents must never be stored with strong oxidising agents (e.g. sodium hypochlorite – bleach, iodine and other halogens, hydrogen peroxide, nitric acid, potassium permanganate etc.) reducing agents (e.g. Sodium borohydride, lithium aluminium hydride etc.) or concentrated acids (e.g.
concentrated sulphuric or hydrochloric acids).
5.12.2. Concentrated acids and alkalis must be stored separately; any accidental mixing of concentrated materials may generate large quantities of heat and fumes.
Designated Storage
5.13 A number of different types of specialised cabinets are available for the specific use of chemical storage, these include:
5.13.1. Acid Cabinets – These are made of acid resistant materials and should contain a tray, to contain any leakage or spillage.
5.13.2. Flammable Solvent Cabinets – These are made of fire-resistant material with a minimum fire resistance of 30 minutes as required by BS EN 14470-1:2023.
5.13.3. Ventilated Cabinets – These are cabinets fitted with an extraction system; The fumes are extracted by forced ventilation. This type of cabinet should be used to store materials such as mercaptans and amines which give off hazardous vapours and in particularly those give off strong smelling vapours . In the absence of ventilated cabinets, noxious hazardous substances can be stored in sealed secondary containers, when stored in this manner the containers should only be opened in a fume cupboard.
5.14 Use of Fume Cupboards – Fume cupboards are not designed or intended for the storage of hazardous substances. The working surfaces of fume cupboards should therefore be kept clear of materials and containers when these are not needed for the ongoing work activities. In addition, the excess storage of hazardous substances in fume cupboards disrupts the airflow resulting in a lower level of protection to users.
Storage of specific hazardous substances
5.15 Flammable Solvents - e.g. alcohols, toluene, hexane. The vapours given off by flammable liquid/solvents are often the main source of danger. This vapour is very susceptible to ignition by naked flames, sparks from electrical switches, motors etc. or from sparks produced electrostatically by friction. Precautions must therefore be taken to prevent contact between any of these and the concentrated vapours of flammable liquids.
5.15.1. Flammable solvents must be stored in specialised lockable metal flammable cabinets; these must be clearly labelled and positioned away from doors or other means of escape from the laboratory. It should be noted that no more than 50 litres of a flammable liquids may be kept in any one laboratory room to reduce the risk of a serious laboratory fire, the flammable .
5.15.2. Containers of flammable solvents used during teaching/research (i.e. those kept on the bench) should not exceed 500 ml (this volume can be easily contained should an accident/fire occur) and the solvent must be kept in a suitable closed vessel. An exception to this is where the experiment being undertaken has a direct feed from a Winchester.
5.15.3. Flammable solvents must not be stored in fume cupboards or vented cabinets, unless there is a heat activated damper on the extraction ductwork. This will prevent spread the fire to other parts of the building via the ventilation ducting. The extraction fan will exacerbate the spread of fire if there is no damper.
5.16 Chlorinated solvents (e.g. chloroform, dichloromethane (DCM)
trichloroethylene) are best stored in ventilated cabinets separately from flammable (non-chlorinated) solvents because if they get involved in a fire, they will give off toxic fumes and gases. They should not be stored with alkali metals such as lithium, potassium, or sodium, since any mixing can cause an explosion. They can be stored in metal containers if ventilated storage is not available.
5.17 Strong Acids and Strong Alkalis
Strong Acids and strong alkalis will react strongly with each other and must be stored separately; any accidental mixing of may generate large quantities of heat and fumes. They can be stored in a vented or metal cabinet so long as they are in a containment tray to prevent any spillages. However consideration must be given to the effects of corrosive fumes on any metal in the fittings and construction of the container.
The use of ventilated cabinets is recommended where possible, allowing the removal of fumes at source. All containers/bottle tops must be suitably sealed to avoid unnecessary leakage of fumes.
5.18 Oxidisers (e.g. peroxides, perchlorates, and nitrates)
Oxidising substances should be stored in metal cabinets and away from any organic matter such as wood and paper (N.B. oxidising agents should never be stored in a wooden cabinet!). Oxidising agents must never be stored with flammable solvents or reducing agents since fires and explosions can result after any spillage, even without a naked flame or heat.
Perchloric acid is an extremely strong oxidising agent particularly in concentrated form; this acid can react explosively with organic materials. It should ideally be stored separately on a metal tray of sand within a cabinet, away from organic materials or dehydrating agents such as sulphuric acid.
You should always check with the SDS if in doubt.
6. Monitoring and review
The application of this guidance will be checked during the usual audit procedure.
The findings of these audits will be fed back to the relevant H&S Panels.

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/health-safety-and-wellbeing-intranet/documents
SOURCE_DOC: Corridors and Escape Routes.pdf

Health and Safety
Corridors and Escape Routes
Introduction
In order to safeguard corridors and exit routes that are used as part of building evacuation procedures it is essential that they remain free from combustible materials that could hinder evacuation procedures.
The Regulatory Reform (Fire Safety) Order 2005, (referred to as ‘the Fire Safety Order’), Building Regulations and associated Approved Documents require escape routes and corridors be kept free from obstructions and that they are able to be used safely at all material times. To achieve this it is essential we have certain rules and guidance to ensure the University meets its statutory obligations.
In addition to fire safety legislation the fact that we must maintain safe corridors and exit routes is also recognised within legislation and guidance documents. A fire in a corridor or staircase could have devastating consequences with people becoming trapped within their offices, work or study areas.
Scope
This code shall apply to all University buildings, owned, leased or managed.
Furniture
Furniture must not be placed in corridors; these are escape routes and must be kept sterile.
Where areas within corridors designated as quiet study/social spaces it must be constructed of a low-risk material e.g. metal or solid wood. Plastic seating should be avoided. Where soft furnishings are used, they must conform to the Furniture and Furnishings (Fire) (Safety) Regulations 1988 (as amended 1989, 1993 and 2010).
Unwanted furniture must not be discarded into corridors, staircases or lift lobbies, not even temporarily whilst awaiting collection for disposal. The Property Services ancillary services should be contacted for disposal.
Pigeonholes and Lockers
It has been common practice in the past to have wooden pigeon holes for student work submissions, correspondence and staff mail etc. this practice is not encouraged but where appropriate can be continued, however only metal units should be used, it is also a requirement that the top of the unit/pigeon hole has a sloping top so as to prevent it from being used for storage.
It is also noted that lockers have been placed within a number of corridors, particularly outside laboratories, numbers of these need to be restricted and their positioning must be appropriate. They must also be constructed of metal with a sloping top.
The contents of lockers must be restricted, and should be limited to outdoor clothing, books, papers etc. and personal effects e.g. handbags. No flammable substances should be stored within, not even on a temporary basis, prohibited substances for storage in lockers in corridors include; Chemicals, Samples, Biological Agents or other such materials, compressed gas high risk liquids and gasses, flammable or highly flammable materials. All lockers must be locked when in use.
The Head of HSW must be consulted prior to the placing of both lockers and pigeon holes. Locations must be appropriate, by this they should only be placed where there is adjacent detection, they must not be placed within lift lobbies or staircases (not even temporarily). They should not be placed in areas where there is only one means of escape e.g. a ‘dead end’ corridor serving two or three offices.
It must be further noted that lockers within corridors are for the temporary storage of student personal belonging, these are not to be used as a personal long term storage facility. Any locker found locked at the end of the academic day may have the lock removed.
Coat Hooks
Coat hooks must not be placed in any corridor used on a means of escape.
Bookcases and Filing Cabinets
Bookcases and Filing Cabinets must not be stored or located within any escape route or protected corridor. Corridors are circulation areas and not office extensions.
Display Materials and Decorations
Displays are usually positioned within entrance lobbies and atria etc. they usually incorporate paper, plastics and cardboard, all of which will assist in developing a rapid fire. To reduce risks the following must be considered:
- Minimise the display size and try to position them so they will not obstruct exits,
- Treat display material with a flame retardant spray where appropriate,
- Utilise display cabinets if possible;
- Keep displays away from the vicinity of any heat source including light fittings and heaters/radiators,
- Ensure there are no ignition sources in the area,
Permanent and semi-permanent displays including the displaying of artwork associated with student assignments, exhibitions etc. require separate consideration, and for these instances the Head of HSW should be consulted.
Notice Boards
Notice boards within rooms may be up to 3 metres in length, if more than one is required within the same location there should be a 1 metre gap separating them.
In corridors and escape routes however they should conform to class 0 (zero); this means that the notice board must be glazed or polycarbonate used, the frame must be aluminium or hardwood and the door/cover must be lockable. The core of the notice board must also meet class 0 standards.
Temporary Signs and Notices
Temporary signs used internally within buildings offering directions to rooms or conferences etc. must not be placed on walls, pillars, windows or doors. Flame retardant polycarbonate display holders have been installed within lift lobbies for this purpose. Where there are shortfalls identified a request should be made to Property Services for additional holders.
Event organisers must ensure they include building floor plans etc. with any joining instructions to alleviate the necessity of plastering walls and doors with directional signage.
Any temporary notice found on a fire door, within a protected route or an escape route will be removed.
10 Corridor Seating Areas
In some buildings the corridor is of such a width that some have been utilised as a seating/rest area or Student write up area. As these areas still form part of the escape route a number of precautions must be adopted:
- The amount of furniture must be restricted, guidance should be sought from the Head of HSW, paragraph 3 relating to Furniture must be observed.
- Seating areas must not be positioned in corridors where escape is only possible in one direction; this would have the effect of blocking off the corridor.
- Inner-inner rooms must not be created (i.e. to get to an office you must not have to pass through two rooms to get to it),
- Corridors and access lobbies must not become ‘rooms’.
Electrical Equipment
Electrical equipment including photocopiers, printers must not be installed on escape routes, in protected corridors, lift lobbies or staircases.
Vending machines must not be installed on any escape route, lift lobby or within staircase enclosures.
Unwanted electrical equipment must not be discarded into corridors, staircases or lift lobbies, not even temporarily whilst awaiting collection for disposal. The Property Services ancillary services should be contacted for disposal, equipment must remain in offices etc. until collected.
Fire Doors
Fire doors form part of the building’s passive fire protection, they are not notice boards. Any posters, directional signage, or notices etc. that are displayed on a fire door will be removed and disposed of.
Whilst care is taken to identify building compartment lines it may not always be practicable to increase these, as a compromise and to mitigate the migration of by-products of combustion e.g. smoke and flames, where doors open onto the escape route they should be fire rated to a minimum standard of FD30s.
Internal office doors that do not open onto an escape route need not be fire rated unless they form part of a compartment line, plant room, kitchenette, server room or other room of high risk.

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/health-safety-and-wellbeing-intranet/documents
SOURCE_DOC: Fire Evacuation Procedures v1.2.pdf

Health and Safety
Fire Evacuation Procedures and Assembly Points
(Version 1.2)
October 2009 v 1.2
Introduction
The purpose of this document is to introduce the evacuation strategy which is adopted throughout all University academic and student residence buildings and give guidance in certain areas to facilitate a smooth evacuation process. This document aims to remove any confusion on the hearing of fire alarm systems.
The enclosed plans will assist in the identification of an appropriate assembly point with varying locations for different University buildings. In addition, routes are indicated dependent upon which exit from a building is used. All personnel should familiarise themselves with the most appropriate assembly point for the building in which they normally work, and where applicable any additional assembly points for their building should the normal exit route be obstructed.
Any queries should be directed to the University Fire Safety Officer who is contactable on extension 5764.
University of Bradford Fire Safety Policy Statement
The University of Bradford recognises that fire can have a devastating effect on life as well as its business and activities and is totally committed to providing a safe environment for study and work. The University of Bradford will ensure so far as is reasonably practicable that all staff, students, contractors and visitors are protected from the risks and effects of fire, and will take such general fire precautions as may reasonably be required to ensure their safety.
Emergencies require people to react in certain ways to ensure their safety; this includes safe evacuation procedures from buildings. In order to give people the knowledge they need to undertake this, fire drills are conducted at least once every academic year. The fire drills will also help to highlight any deficiencies or defects in our procedures.
It is the responsibility of each individual, whether staff, student, visitor or contractor to cooperate with the emergency procedures implemented by the University. This document forms part of the schedule of the Fire Safety Policy.
Within this Evacuation document, there are a number of foreseeable scenarios along with an explanation of the action to be followed in each case, please note set procedures for predictable situations cannot be laid down, as there are too many variables of a given situation, which may dictate how the incident and evacuation are best handled. As a general principle one of progressive horizontal evacuation should be used, i.e. putting as much distance between yourself and the fire whilst remaining on the same floor level, this is particularly the case for persons with a disability.
Staff are once again reminded that under health and safety legislation we are all responsible for our own safety and that of others who may be affected by our actions or in-actions. At no time should people act in a reckless or negligent manner that could lead to a fire situation or obstruction of fire exits or exit routes, nor should things provided in the interests of safety be tampered with or misused.
Action to be taken if you discover a fire
- Raise the alarm – this can be done by shouting and or operating one of the red break glass call points, these are generally located on exit routes or the way out of a room next to the door.
- If it is safe to do so close any open windows and doors
- If it is safe to do so and you have been trained in the use of fire extinguishers, then tackle the fire by using an appropriate extinguisher provided, keep your back to the exit route and if the fire extinguisher is not making any difference and the fire continues to increase in size leave the room immediately.
- Leave by the nearest available exit, this may not be the point at which you entered the building.
- Do not Stop to collect personal belongings,
Action to take upon hearing the fire alarm or on receipt of a verbal instruction to evacuate the building
- Leave the premises by the nearest available exit, this is not necessarily the way you entered the building.
- Once outside the building proceed to the nearest assembly point.
- Move away from the building, (in a fire situation glass shatters and concrete explodes).
- Do not re-enter the building until given the all clear by security personnel.
Please note; failing to proceed to an assembly point can be both dangerous to the individual and obstructive to the Emergency Services.
Additionally, it is the responsibility of each individual to follow the evacuation protocol promptly upon hearing the fire alarm, in the event of a bomb threat or similar type of emergency it may be necessary to initiate this procedure verbally.
Disabled persons
Persons with a disability should proceed to a refuge at the furthest point within a building from the fire. The majority of refuges are located in stairwells; their location is indicated by appropriate signage.
As an example of the procedure in the event of an alarm activation, if we look at the facilities and lay out of the Richmond Building, if the alarm activation was on the Richmond wing, evacuees should, providing it is safe, proceed to the central lift lobby initially, then to the end of the Carlton wing. In this location, there is a refuge with voice communication facilities, if it was not safe to proceed to the Central lift lobby or the Carlton wing because of the location of the fire, then the lift lobby at the end of the Richmond wing could be used.
The communication facilities within the refuge can be used to contact Security, who will advise the person to either: a) Remain at the refuge until the alarm has been investigated, b) Commence descent if able, c) Arrange for assistance to be sent,
A new system for voice communications is being installed in other buildings, this system will allow Emergency Wardens to communicate with both security and directly to the person waiting at the refuge.
Personal Emergency Evacuation Plans (PEEP’s)
PEEP’s are personalised evacuation plans for people with a disability whether permanent or temporary who would need assistance to evacuate a building in the event of an emergency, particularly where this is mobility related, as lifts should not be generally used in emergencies. Any person who does not have one of these but feels they would need assistance to evacuate should contact the University Fire Safety Officer, who can be reached by email - S.W.Wiggins@Bradford.ac.uk ).
Phased Evacuation
The Richmond Building is currently the only building within the University portfolio that has phased evacuation; this is a process of evacuating only certain parts of the building to limit the disruption. The way in which this currently works is that the floor where an alarm has been received would evacuate along with the floor directly above, e.g. fire alarm activated on E floor Carlton, alarm sounds on E and F floors of Carlton only. Persons in these areas should then evacuate the building by the nearest available exit.
Individuals with responsibilities
Academic Staff – Staff who are teaching at the time of an incident should try to ensure that their teaching area is evacuated by all students. They should make everyone under their guidance aware that the fire alarm has sounded and of the need to evacuate the building immediately. In the event of their being someone within their charge who has a disability, they should assist the student in locating their safe refuge point. Academic staff may choose to leave the building or stay with the student until the alarm has been investigated and the all clear given or until assistance arrives. All disabled persons should have been given a Personal Emergency Evacuation Plan (PEEP) and should know what action to take in the event of an emergency.
Students – Students are responsible for their own safety and will be expected to follow any instruction or guidance given during any emergency.
Technical/Support staff – Support staff should follow the guidance contained within this document, however it is expected that they would endeavour to ensure any person present within their work area who is unfamiliar with the procedure or suffering from a disability, is given guidance and assistance on the actions to take during the emergency incident where appropriate.
Emergency Wardens – These are University staff who have volunteered to provide assistance and support during an emergency. They will guide evacuees to exit routes and conduct an internal sweep of the area where they normally work to ensure occupants have evacuated. Outside the building wardens will guide evacuees to assembly points and away from any potential danger.
Emergency wardens will liaise with Security and the Emergency Services, and assist in the evacuation of persons within emergency refuges should it be necessary.
All personnel are respectfully reminded that wardens are volunteers and play an important role within the evacuation procedure, they should not be give any verbal abuse for the task they have been asked to undertake, persons who are either abusive or fail to evacuate the building will be dealt with severely through the appropriate channels.
Security Personnel – Security personnel will be investigating the alarm activation and should not be relied upon to assist in evacuation, they will also give the instruction that it is safe to re-enter a building following an emergency.

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/health-safety-and-wellbeing-intranet/documents
SOURCE_DOC: Pandemic Policy Appendix A Infectious Diseases.pdf

Health and Safety
INFECTIOUS AND COMMUNICABLE DISEASES
1. Introduction
Please Note, This document has been produced to supplement the Pandemic Incident Policy.
Whilst major outbreaks of serious diseases and infections are rare, the University must consider known disease risks and have contingencies and plans in place to mitigate the associated risks that are likely to cause disruption to the daily operations of the University; the guidance and procedures must also seek to support those who may be affected, reduce the potential for transmission and protect staff, students, and visitors. In addition, the procedural document outlines the University’s role with the UK Health Security Agency (UKHSA) in assisting them in the discharge of their duties related to managing communicable disease and potential outbreaks as well as ensuring the University meets its duty of care.
There are several ways that the University may be alerted to a student or member of staff suffering from a communicable disease; one of the primary considerations is to find out what type of disease the individual may be suffering with, in addition it would be prudent to be able to identify (in the case of a student) where they are living as this may have a knock-on effect with other residents with whom they may be sharing accommodation with.
2. Definitions
- Communicable Disease - Any disease that is transmissible by infection or contagion directly or through the agency of a vector;
- Notifiable Disease – A disease with significant public health implications, typically a highly infectious disease, for which the diagnosing clinician has a statutory responsibility to notify the correct body or person e.g. Public Health;
- Public Health – Public health departments have a key role in the management of infectious and communicable diseases, ensuring that there are adequate disease prevention and surveillance programmes, and in the prevention of secondary spread through contact tracing;
- Possible case – Case not requiring public health action; the individual has provided a sample for testing and the clinician is awaiting test results;
- Probable case - Clinical diagnosis of a communicable or infectious disease where the clinician considers that an infection is the most likely diagnosis;
- Confirmed case - Case requiring public health action;
- Outbreak - An outbreak or incident may be defined as an event in which two or more people experiencing a similar illness are linked in time or place.
3. Responsibilities
Any member of the University community including staff, student, contractor, or visitor who believes they may have come into contact with a person or persons that have a communicable or infectious disease must seek to confirm a diagnosis of their suspected condition.
Likewise, any member of the University (staff, student, contractor, or visitor) who knows that they have a communicable disease has an obligation to minimise physical contact with other members of the University community.
Any member of the University community including staff, student, contractor or visitor who have been diagnosed with (or suspects a diagnosis of) a communicable disease that could be spread through routine contact must observe any medical advice that may have been issued on appropriate isolation until they no longer have the communicable disease or the communicable disease is no longer transmissible through ‘routine’ contact or as determined by a medical professional.
Prior to returning to studies/work, it would be normal practice for the University member to provide a return to work note in line with Sickness Reporting Policy or Extenuating Circumstances Policy.
Depending upon the circumstances, the response to an alert of an infectious or communicable disease must be measured and appropriate, the seriousness of any report will help to determine the numbers of people that may need to be involved. The Head of Health, Safety and Security or nominated deputy will be integral in managing any outbreak; other key stake holders, dependent upon the infected person, will include the Director of People and Campus Services or the Director of Student and Academic Services, or their nominated deputies.
3.1 Key Stake holders
- Director of People and Campus Services; The Director of People and Campus Services must be informed of all reports of communicable and infectious disease reports, this will ensure a measured response can be taken with any staff alerting requirements;
- Academic Registrar and Director of Student and Academic Services (SAS); In a similar vein as that of the Director of People and Campus Services, the same process would be followed for alerting and responding to issues relating to a student outbreak;
- Deans and Directors; Must ensure that staff and students within their respective areas are alerted to any outbreak and provide them with information as may be required, consideration will need to be given to other staff and students studying or teaching on the same course;
- Chief Executive Officer University Bradford Union; Will be responsible for disseminating information within the student’s union. Alerting within the student community must include any social contacts including bars, sports teams etc.
- Head of Health, Safety and Security (HSS); The Head of HSS will act in the capacity of coordinator, ensuring appropriate persons are alerted accordingly, also consult with external bodies such as Public Health etc.
- Head of Counselling; Will need to make staff available to discuss any concerns or anxiety amongst the student or staff community;
- Associate Director of PR and Communications; Collaborating with the Director of People and Campus Services and or Director of Student and Academic Services issues communications as may be required ensuring accurate information is disseminated appropriately and timely;
4. Infection Prevention and Control
The aim of prevention and control of infections should aim to interrupt the chain of transmission, to aid in this several safeguards can be implemented and conducted as a collective, these include institutional measure and individual responsibilities.
Those who become ill whilst at University with a suspected case of an infectious disease should exclude themselves immediately. (Please see Table below).
- Infection: Chickenpox
  - Exclusion Period: At least 5 days from onset of rash and until all blisters have crusted over
- Infection: Coronavirus
  - Exclusion Period: Until recovered or when no longer have a high temperature
- Infection: Diarrhoea and vomiting
  - Exclusion Period: Staff and students can return 48 hours after diarrhoea and vomiting have stopped
- Infection: Diptheria*
  - Exclusion Period: Exclusion is essential, consult with your UKHSA HPT
  - Additional: Until recovered
- Infection: Hepatitis A
  - Exclusion Period: Exclude until 7 days after onset of jaundice (or 7 days after symptom onset if no jaundice)
- Infection: Impetigo
  - Exclusion Period: Until lesions are crusted or healed, or 48 hours after starting antibiotic treatment
- Infection: Measles
  - Exclusion Period: 4 days from onset of rash and well enough
- Infection: Meningococcal meningitis*, septicaemia*
  - Exclusion Period: Until recovered
- Infection: Meningitis* due to other bacteria
  - Exclusion Period: Until recovered
- Infection: Meningitis (viral)
  - Exclusion Period: No need to isolate
- Infection: Mumps*
  - Exclusion Period: 5 days after onset of swelling
- Infection: Rubella* (German measles)
  - Exclusion Period: 5 days from onset of rash
- Infection: Scabies
  - Exclusion Period: Can return after first treatment
- Infection: Scarlet fever*
  - Exclusion Period: Exclude until 24 hours after starting antibiotic treatment
- Infection: Tuberculosis* (TB)
  - Exclusion Period: Until at least 2 weeks after the start of effective antibiotic treatment (if pulmonary TB)
  - Note: Exclusion not required for non-pulmonary or latent TB infection. Always consult your local HPT before disseminating information.
- Infection: Whooping cough*
  - Exclusion Period: 2 days from starting antibiotic treatment, or 21 days from onset of symptoms if no antibiotics

 * Denotes the infection is notifiable to the UKHSA health protection team
Prompt exclusion of staff and or students who are unwell with an infectious disease is essential to prevent the spread within the University community. Should this be necessary and the individual is unable to drive or get themselves home independently the Occupational Health rooms within Richmond should be used for the purpose of isolation (E Floor Link room E86) until arrangements can be made for individuals to be transferred.
4.1 Hand Hygiene
Hand washing is one of the most important ways of controlling the spread of infections, especially those that cause diarrhoea and/or vomiting and respiratory infections.
All staff, students and visitors should wash their hands after using the toilet, before eating or handling food, remember toilet paper is porous!
In addition to the hand washing facilities widely available across campus the University has also installed hand sanitising units, it should be noted however that alcohol hand sanitiser is not effective against norovirus where thorough handwashing with soap and water is more effective.
4.2 Cleaning
The University employs many dedicated and trained cleaning staff. Good standards of general housekeeping are maintained across the estate with appropriate colour coding of cleaning equipment for the different variety of tasks undertaken to prevent cross contamination.
Keeping the workplace clean reduces the risk of the spread of infection and can play a part in reducing sickness amongst the University community, especially those surfaces that are frequently touched.
4.3 Sanitary Facilities
Within all toilets on campus hand wash basins with warm running water along with a mild liquid soap are readily available along with hand driers.
Toilet paper is also available in each cubicle, and within female toilets provisions have been made for the safe disposal of sanitary products. The University also has several accessible toilets across campus.
All areas are cleaned regularly throughout the day.
4.4 Ventilation
Ventilation is the process of introducing fresh air into indoor spaces while removing stale air. Letting fresh air into indoor spaces can help remove air that contains virus particles and prevent the spread of respiratory infections.
In addition to opening windows mechanical ventilation has been installed in many areas across campus, these units are maintained by the University mechanical team with filter changes undertaken at intervals to help capture contaminants within the air.
Fresh air within occupied spaces can help to reduce concentrations of respiratory particles thus lowering the risk of transmission to others.
The risk of catching or passing on respiratory infections can be higher in certain places, and is increased when someone with an infection breathes, speaks, coughs or sneezes. These actions release tiny particles which can contain the virus.
5. Reducing the Spread of Respiratory Diseases
5.1 Respiratory Cough Hygiene
Coughs and sneezes spread diseases. Covering the nose and mouth during sneezing and coughing can reduce the spread of infections. More specifically:
- Cover nose and mouth with a tissue when coughing and sneezing, and dispose of used tissue in non-healthcare risk waste bin and perform hand hygiene;
- Cough or sneeze into the inner elbow (upper sleeve) if no tissues are available, rather than into the hand;
- Keep contaminated hands away from the mucous membranes of the eyes and nose;
- Carry out hand hygiene after contact with respiratory secretions and contaminated objects and materials.
6. Know the Symptoms
Respiratory infections can spread quickly between people as we often experience with seasonal flu and more recently the COVID-19 pandemic. It is therefore important that staff, students, and managers are aware of the symptoms so that action can be taken to reduce the risk of spreading infections to others.
The symptoms of COVID-19 and other respiratory infections are similar, and so it may not be possible to differentiate between COVID-19, flu or another infection based on symptoms alone.
Typical symptoms of COVID-19, flu and other common respiratory infections include:
- Continuous cough;
- High temperature, fever, or chills;
- Loss of, or change in, your normal sense of taste or smell;
- Shortness of breath;
- Unexplained tiredness, or lack of energy;
- Muscle aches or pains that are not due to exercise;
- Not wanting to eat or not feeling hungry;
- Headache that is unusual or longer lasting than usual;
- Sore throat, stuffy or runny nose;
- Diarrhoea, feeling sick or being sick.
Some people may continue to cough or feel tired after other symptoms have improved, but this does not mean they remain infectious.
7. Actions to Take
If a member of staff or a student is unwell with symptoms of a respiratory infection the following guidance should be considered:
Try to stay at home and avoid contact with other people.
If people have symptoms of a respiratory infection, such as COVID-19, and have a high temperature or do not feel well enough to go to work or carry out normal activities, they should try to stay at home and avoid contact with others until they no longer have a high temperature (if they had one) or until they no longer feel unwell.
It is particularly important to avoid close contact with anyone who they know is at higher risk of becoming seriously unwell if they are infected with COVID-19 or other respiratory infections, especially those whose immune system means that they are at higher risk of serious illness, despite vaccination.
Line managers should, following discussions with the individuals, consider whether they are well enough to be able to work from home temporarily.
Covering the mouth and nose when people cough or sneeze; wash hands frequently with soap and water for 20 seconds or use hand sanitiser after coughing and sneezing.
Within the workplace regularly cleaning of frequently touched surfaces, such as door handles and handrails, door push plates etc. should be promoted.
If individuals think they may have COVID-19 they may choose to purchase a test kit, in the event of the result being positive for COVID-19, try to stay at home and avoid contact with other people for 5 days after the day you took your test. After this time, most people will no longer be infectious.
Staff who are able and well enough to work from home should be encouraged to do so, once the high temperature has subsided, they can return to work if well enough.
8. Vaccinations
Vaccines are a very effective way at preventing serious illness, particularly COVID-19 and flu, and whilst the University recognises individuals’ rights to decide whether they wish to avail themselves of the various vaccines available e.g. flu, measles, mumps, rubella, COVID-19 etc. they are to be encouraged and the University will support staff to get their vaccine when offered, this includes during normal working hours.
9. Safe Management of Blood and Body Fluids
Any spillages of blood, faeces, saliva, vomit, nasal and eye discharges should be cleaned immediately and appropriate Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) should be worn e.g. gloves, apron, splash goggles (if appropriate).
Disposable paper towels or cloths should be used to clean up blood and body fluid spills. The University has also provided spillage kit, these are available from the cleaning team and security and can be used for bodily fluids such as blood, vomit, and urine.

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/health-safety-and-wellbeing-intranet/documents
SOURCE_DOC: Portable Electrical Equipment.pdf

Health and Safety
1. Introduction
In order to safeguard corridors and exit routes that are used as part of building evacuation procedures it is essential that they remain free from combustible materials that could hinder evacuation procedures.
The Regulatory Reform (Fire Safety) Order 2005, (referred to as ‘the Fire Safety Order’), Building Regulations and associated Approved Documents require escape routes and corridors be kept free from obstructions and that they are able to be used safely at all material times. To achieve this it is essential we have certain rules and guidance to ensure the University meets its statutory obligations.
In addition to fire safety legislation the fact that we must maintain safe corridors and exit routes is also recognised within legislation and guidance documents. A fire in a corridor or staircase could have devastating consequences with people becoming trapped within their offices, work or study areas.
2. Scope
This code shall apply to all University buildings, owned, leased or managed.
3. Purpose
This code of practice is to clarify and issue guidance on the safe use of domestic type electrical equipment.
To enhance the existing Energy Saving guidance issued by Property Services and to support the Electrical and Fire Safety Policies, the indiscriminate use of domestic types of electrical equipment including portable fan heaters is not permitted. These are dangerous when no control over their positioning or use is applied.
The paragraphs below contain the guidance approved and issued by the Health, Safety & Wellbeing Committee.
4. Portable Space Heaters
Statistically this type of equipment is amongst the biggest single cause of fires nationally with over 1,700 fires being attributable to portable space heaters and over 5000 for other electrical appliances.
Where people feel that the fixed heating within their offices is insufficient, they should make a report to Property Services who will endeavour to investigate the matter within 5 working days.
If Property Services are unable to attend to the problem within this timescale or the problem has arisen due to a failure in the heating system that cannot be easily and quickly resolved, then a number of Portable Heaters may be made available by them for short-term loan. However, it must be noted that numbers may have to be restricted to ensure the electrical infrastructure can cope with the increased loading.
If the problem is one that cannot be resolved without major works being undertaken, and urgent need for heat within offices, classrooms is required then in order to comply with health and safety guidelines on minimum temperatures within workspaces oil-filled radiator type heaters may be used.
Oil filled radiators should be used in accordance with the manufacturer’s instructions/recommendations and need to be sited against a wall to prevent any obstructions in circulation spaces and to remove the risk of any trip hazard which may be caused by trailing leads.
Oil filled radiators must not be covered with items such as clothing, towels, etc. Anyone found to be contravening this instruction faces having his or her heater removed. Heaters must also fall within the Schools’ or Directorates Portable Appliance Testing (PAT) regime.
To ensure all users of the space benefit from the additional heat portable heaters should not be placed under desks.
At the end of the working day and in the event of a fire alarm activation, all heaters ‘must be switched off’ at the mains. This will help to reduce the fire risk and will contribute to the reduction of the carbon footprint and energy conservation at the University.
Oil filled radiators can if deemed necessary be purchased centrally through Property Services by contacting their help desk.
In order to comply with current University policy on electrical appliances personnel are respectfully reminded that no personal electrical appliances should be brought into the place of work.
5. Toasters
It has been noted during audits of various University buildings that there is an exceptional amount of domestic type electrical equipment in use throughout the University. There are currently University policies in place that restrict this but which would appear to be ignored; we need to ensure as an organisation the message is communicated clearly to all personnel.
Toasters are the cause of at least one evacuation per month, on the surface this does not sound much, but we need to look at other factors;
- Each time we have an alarm activation we must evacuate. An evacuation causes disruption to students and their lectures, experiments etc. In addition with too many false alarms it breeds complacency, the onetime people need to evacuate urgently will be the one time people ignore it.
- Not only is the alarm an unwanted and frustrating disruption but there is also an associated cost, no estimate has been made of this but if we were to work on the basis of one false alarm per month the potential cost could be astronomical due to several factors; Staff downtime, Demonstrators down time, Cost of abandoned experiments, Potential for bio-hazards because of experiments, Disruption to planned assessments, Disruption to exams – with associated consequences, Loss of resources, Staff investigating the cause of an alarm,
If we multiply person time by several hundred to account for occupancy evacuation, and take 10 minutes of everybody’s time in monetary terms from the Vice Chancellor down, the cost of a false alarm is into several thousands of pounds.
A decision has therefore been taken to restrict the use of toasters to designated areas only; these will be approved kitchens only; small tea making areas within offices do not qualify.
The room must be checked to ensure it is suitable from a fire safety perspective and to ensure the appropriate levels of detection are installed, Property Services electrical team can advise on the levels of detection, alternatively the Head of HSW can be contacted. Kitchenettes must have a closable door fitted with an automatic closer, if there are any other openings e.g. shutters, these must also be closable and not of the open grill type, this will then prevent any smoke from burnt toast entering the circulation areas unnecessarily and generating unwanted fire alarm signals.
When toasters are being used those using them must never leave them unattended, crumb trays must be emptied at least weekly.
6. Kettles and Coffee Machines
Other equipment that appears prolific is that of kettles etc. a large number of offices have more than one. Kettles and such equipment must be restricted to one and should only be located within designated areas such as kitchenettes. Where no such facilities exist then kettles within an office must be positioned such that is will not affect the fire detection equipment, in addition there must be no more than one.
7. Microwaves
Microwaves are restricted items and must be in kitchenettes only, microwaves have been the cause of a number of fires at the University. When staff are using microwaves they must never be left unattended.

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/international-student-support-and-ukvi-compliance-intranet/documents
SOURCE_DOC: Applying for a visit visa to study guidance.pdf

International Student Support and UKVI Compliance
A GUIDE TO MAKING A VISIT VISA APPLICATION FOR STUDY
Visa Nationals – MUST APPLY FOR PRIOR ENTRY CLEARANCE
You will need to apply for Entry Clearance as a visitor if you are a Visa National. Nationals of certain countries are classed as Visa Nationals; this means you must apply for a visa before you enter the UK. If you arrive in the UK without a visa, you will not be allowed to enter, and you will be expected to return home.
There is a list of countries whose citizens are Visa Nationals on the UK Visas & Immigration website: https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-v-visitor 
Non-visa Nationals – DO NOT HAVE TO APPLY FOR PRIOR ENTRY CLEARANCE (IF COMING FOR UP TO 6 MONTHS, BUT IT IS RECOMMENDED THAT THEY DO)
You are a non-visa national if you are: a national or citizen of any country that is NOT listed on the above link (including EU, EAA and Swiss Nationals); or: a British overseas territories citizen; a British overseas citizen; a British national (overseas); a British protected person; or a British subject.
Being a Non-Visa National means that you are not required to have prior entry clearance if you are coming to the UK for up to 6 months.
Non-visa nationals can make an Entry Clearance application on arrival in the UK. However, we advise non-visa nationals to apply for Entry Clearance before coming to the UK to avoid any problems, such as a visa refusal at the airport. Please be aware that you may be refused entry if you do not have a valid visa for the UK.
Furthermore, we strongly advise you to apply for a visa before travelling to the UK if: you have any unspent criminal convictions in any country, including the UK; you have previously been refused entry, deported or otherwise removed from the UK; you have breached the terms of any previous entry to the UK (for example, by working illegally or staying here after your permission to stay expired); you have previously applied for a visa and been refused; or you have been warned by a UK official that you should obtain a visa before you travel to the UK.
Applying for a Visit for study.
You will have to apply online, within 3 months of the start date of your visit, from your home country
Read the information “Apply for a UK Visa” on: https://www.gov.uk/standard-visitor-visa/apply as it will tell you how to apply, what documents you will need and how long it will take.
After you have read the information please select “Start Now”
You will need to:
- Register for an account with UK Visas & Immigration.
- Fill in the application form in English.
- Provide contact email and telephone numbers which are in use.
- Provide details including the following: your address, passport details, your employment status, your financial situation, travel information including previous travel history, course details, accommodation details.
- Pay for the visa fee online (in most cases)
- Print out your form
- Book and attend an appointment at a Visa Application Centre
- remember to upload / take the supporting documents with you which may include the following: passport or travel documents, evidence of funds available to you and clearly accessible by you, evidence of support you will received from your sponsor, including details of what support is being provided and how, evidence of the relationship between you and your sponsor, evidence that you are enrolled or accepted on a UK course.
Please note that this information is for guidance only. You must check the UKVI website for up-to-date visa requirements: https://www.gov.uk/standard-visitor-visa
If you need further assistance please email the International Student Support and UKVI Compliance at: visasupport@bradford.ac.uk

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/international-student-support-and-ukvi-compliance-intranet/documents
SOURCE_DOC: Graduate Immigration Route_General_Factsheet+QA.pdf

International Student Support and UKVI Compliance
UK Graduate Immigration Route - Factsheet
On 11 September 2019 the UK Government announced the creation of a new graduate immigration route. This document provides a summary of the key points of this announcement for our partners, stakeholders and customers outside the UK.
Top lines
- In the year ending June 2019, we issued over 250,000 Tier 4 study visas to international students wishing to study at our world class institutions – 13% higher than the preceding 12 months’.
- This new route demonstrates our commitment to attracting the brightest and best talent from around the world to study and work in the UK.
- It is aimed at providing greater opportunities for talented international students who will be able to remain in the UK for two years to work once they have successfully completed their studies.
- This new route demonstrates our global outlook and will ensure that our world-leading higher education sector remains competitive internationally.
Key information on the route
- The graduate immigration route will be open to international students who have completed a degree at undergraduate level or above at an institution with a track record of compliance with the Home Office’s immigration rules.
- Successful applicants on this route will be able to stay and work, or look for work, in the UK for a maximum period of two years. Graduates will also be able to switch into skilled work once they have found a suitable job.
- It is expected that students entering the UK in the 2020-21 academic year intake will be eligible for this route. This route was announced in September 2019 to ensure that universities, stakeholders and customers preparing for the next academic year were aware of this change and could feature this as part of their plans.
- The immigration route will be two years long and will require a new application (including payment of a fee) and payment of the Immigration Health Surcharge. The exact fee will be set out in due course.
- The route is non-extendable and does not count towards settlement. However, graduates who find an appropriate job and meet the requirements will be able to switch into skilled work, which is a route to settlement.
- Those who graduate and whose leave expires before the route is introduced will not be eligible for it, however, most of these students will have had no expectation of benefitting from such a route when they applied to study in the UK.
Q&A
What is the new Graduate route?
The Graduate route will provide an opportunity for international students who have been awarded their degree to stay and work in the UK at any skill level for two years. This represents a significant improvement in our offer to international students and will help ensure our world leading higher education sector remains competitive internationally.
Who will be eligible for the route?
Once the route is introduced, those with valid leave as a Tier 4 student, who have successfully completed a course at undergraduate level or above at a Higher Education Provider with a track record of compliance, will be eligible to apply for the Graduate route. The application process will be light touch, and applicants will be subject to criminality, identity and security checks.
Why are you introducing this route?
We have a strong offer to make to international students, and this is demonstrated by the fact that visa applications by university students are at a record high. But we want to ensure we continue to attract the brightest and the best students to the UK. This route will ensure that we continue to be world leaders and remain competitive internationally.
Why are you doing this now?
The Graduate route demonstrates the UK is a globally focused, outward facing nation committed to attracting the best students from around the world. Announcing the intention to introduce this route now will allow universities to promote the route when recruiting prospective students. It will also enable students to decide where to study, knowing they have the option of staying in the UK to work after completing their studies.
What are you trying to achieve with this change?
Introducing this new Graduate immigration route will send a global signal that the UK is open to international students and support our education sector to continue to attract talented students from around the world.
Does the Government welcome international students?
Yes. The Government welcomes international students and places no limit on their numbers. There are more international students applying to come to UK universities than ever before. The introduction of the
Graduate route further demonstrates we greatly value international students.
When will the route be introduced?
We will set out plans for the route’s introduction in due course. Universities will be able to recruit on the basis that students starting in the 2020/21 academic year will benefit.
Why can’t it be implemented sooner?
We are working on a timetable for developing and implementing the route with the Higher Education sector to ensure that it is implemented at the most appropriate time.
Will you cap the number of visas available under this route?
All graduates who meet the requirements will be eligible for the route.
What happens after the two-year period?
Those on the route will be able to switch onto the skilled work route if they find a job which meets the skill requirement of the route.
Will it be possible to extend beyond two years? What would someone do after the time is up?
The Graduate route will provide a non-extendable two-year period of leave. Graduates will be able to switch into skilled work if they find a job which meets the requirements of the skilled work route.
How much will the route cost?
There will be a fee for this route, which will be set out in due course.
Will graduates have to pay the immigration health surcharge?
Yes. As with other categories of migrants, those on the Graduate route will need to pay the immigration health surcharge.
What are the key features of the route?
The application process to apply for the Graduate route will be simple, although we intend that all applications will need to be made in-country and a fee will be applied. They will also be subject to identify, criminality and security checks.
All students accepted for the Graduate route will receive two years non-extendable leave. During that time, they will be able to work, or look for work, at any skill level, but won’t be able to access public funds and settlement rights will not be accrued. Graduates will also be able to switch into skilled work once they have found a suitable job.
How are you defining ‘reputable’ Higher Education providers?
The status of each institution will be shown in the register of licensed sponsors, which is publicly available on the GOV.UK website at: https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/register-of-licensed-sponsors-students 
Institutions with the required track record have the status ‘Tier 4 Sponsor – Track record’ in the register.
It will be easy for students to check the status of institutions before making an application.

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/it-services-intranet/documents
SOURCE_DOC: accessing-linux-remotely-from-windows.pdf

IT Services
Accessing Linux remotely from Windows
Information
Linux is no longer available as a dedicated Linux Lab install. It is now accessed remotely from Windows.
You can copy files to and from your Linux session, launch individual applications from terminal session, and launch a full Linux Desktop.
The Linux cluster is based on the latest Ubuntu available for free from https://ubuntu.com/download/desktop 
Pre-requisites
Bitvise SSH client – free download from https://www.bitvise.com/ssh-client-download (this should already be installed in the Labs).
Important note
Linux creates a ‘Vanilla’ (new) user account each time you sign in. This means your work is not saved after your session ends. Any work you do must be copied back to your Windows account or you will lose the work after you end the session.
Instructions 
1. For remote access, in a web browser, sign into Horizon: https://horizon.bradford.ac.uk. 
2. Select the HTML Access version and then enter your University of Bradford credentials.
3. Launch the standard cluster pool from the list displayed.
4. Press the Windows key or select Start and launch BitVise SSH client.
5. Complete the following fields in the Bitvise GUI:
Host: compssh.adds.brad.ac.uk
Port: 2222
Username: Your short username
The default profile for the Terminal is white text on a black background. To use black text on a white background, select the Default colors link in the Terminal tab (above). Modify the background colour to white (255,255,255) and modify the text colour to black (0,0,0).
6. Select Log in.
Note: It will take several seconds before authentication is complete and a new account is created for each session.
Functions
After a successful login, on the left pane you will see the following buttons appear:
- Select New terminal console to launch a new terminal window.
- Select New SFTP window to transfer files from your Windows account to the Linux session and vice versa.
Remember to copy changed files back to your Windows account before your Linux session ends.
- Select New Remote Desktop to launch a full Linux desktop that will fill your screen.
You will see a ‘Check your video drivers’ message, that can be safely ignored. Select the X to close this message panel.
Applications are accessible from Terminal and the menu function.
To exit the desktop, select the Start menu and then the Exit option.
After you close your remote desktop session, you are still signed in to your SSH session and can launch
Terminal or SFTP applications.
Signing out
Remember to copy your work back to Windows first. Then select the Bitvise Log out button to sign out.

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/it-services-intranet/documents
SOURCE_DOC: adobe-creative-cloud.pdf

IT Services
Adobe Creative Cloud
Availability on campus
Acrobat Pro and Photoshop are installed in rooms 01.53, J. B. Priestley Library and F42, Richmond Building.
Additional software - such as Adobe Premier - is available in Faculty of Engineering and Informatics cluster rooms; however, these are only available to students studying Engineering or Informatics modules.
Staff use
University owned Windows 10 devices
Note: If you still have a Windows 7 device, please follow the instructions for personal devices.
1. Go to the Start menu on your device and select the Software Center tile.
2. Under the Applications tab, select the Creative Cloud 2021 app and continue to install it.
3. You may be asked to close some applications as part of the installation process.
4. Once installation is complete, launch the Adobe Creative Cloud software and sign in using you nUniversity username with ‘@bradford.ac.uk’ appended – for example, jrblogg2@bradford.ac.uk – and your University password.
5. You will then see all the Adobe products available for you to install.
Note: Some Adobe apps – for example, Premier and After Affects - require high specification devices to run and will not be compatible with standard University devices. For an indication of whether the app is likely to run before you install it you can select the monitor icon next to the app name. Please note however, that even if your device appears to meet requirements, the app may still not run well, and IT Services will be unable to resolve this
Mac devices
1. Go to the Creative Cloud website. The download begins immediately.
2. Double-click on the downloaded macOS: Creative_Cloud_Installer.dmg file to begin installation and follow the instructions on screen to complete your installation.
3. You will need to sign in with your University username with ‘@bradford.ac.uk’ appended - for example, jrblogg2@bradford.ac.uk - and your University password.
Personal devices
The Adobe Creative Cloud 2021 package is available for staff to download, for the use of University work purposes only, on up to two personally owned devices.
Note: Do not attempt to download this software onto University owned devices.
Restrictions
- This software is only available for current University of Bradford staff; you will have to remove the software if you leave the University.
- This software is for work at home purposes only.
- The software is not available for students to download under this agreement. Students can obtain a copy for a small, discounted fee directly from Adobe.
- You can only install and activate the Creative Cloud Enterprise Desktop Apps on up to two devices, regardless of the operating system.
- Only applications covered under our current Adobe Creative Cloud Work at Home licence will be available to install. All other applications will give you the option to try or trial.
Device requirements
Different applications have different requirements. Before you try and download applications, check that your device meets the minimum requirements.
Downloading the software
1. Download Creative Cloud from Adobe.
2. Select the Company or School Account option and sign in with your University username – for example jrblogg2@bradford.ac.uk (note this is not the same as your email address) – and your password.
3. Once installed and signed in, you can download the Adobe apps you require.

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/it-services-intranet/documents
SOURCE_DOC: amos.pdf

IT Services
AMOS
Installing AMOS
Note: You will first need to apply for an authorisation code. This code will be emailed to you and will be valid from 1 August to 31 July the following year (to renew your licence, please complete the same form).
Once you’ve received the code, follow the steps below:
1. Download this AMOS installer file.
2. Open the folder it has downloaded to and open the application file.
3. Select Yes to allow the UAC to install, and then select Next.
4. Accept the license agreement terms and then select Next.
5. Select Next to accept the destination folder, and then select Install. The installer will run through copying files to the local drive.
6. Remove the check from the ‘Start IBM SPSS Amos 29 now’ box.
7. Select Finish.
Licensing AMOS
1. Go to Start - IBM SPSS Amos and select IBM SPSS Amos 29 License Authorization Wizard.
2. Select Next.
3. Select Authorized user license, enter the licence code, and then select Next.
4. Select Next.
5. The ‘End of Transaction’ line should display: ‘Successfully processed all codes’.
6. Select Next.
7. Select Finish.
IBM SPSS AMOS should now be installed and ready to use.

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/it-services-intranet/documents
SOURCE_DOC: chemdraw.pdf

IT Services
ChemDraw
The University holds a full licence with Revvity which permits students and staff to use ChemDraw in Horizon and also to install ChemDraw on any device.
Note: This guide is the short version on how to register and install ChemDraw. If you get stuck and need more help, please see this full installation guide (from Revvity) or log a ticket with IT Services.
Register with Revvity
1. Go to https://connect.revvitysignals.com/sitesubscription/
2. In the ‘Search for Institution’ field enter University of Bradford and then select it from the list.
3. Select Register.
4. Complete your details in the ‘New User’ section. Note: Include your University of Bradford email address (rather than your personal email address).
5. You’ll receive an email to verify your email address. Once verified, continue with the registration and set a password (do not use the same password as your University IT account password).
6. Important: You’ll be provided with an activation code – make a note of this.
To use ChemDraw in Horizon
1. If you are studying on a course that requires the use of ChemDraw, you should see ChemDraw in the A-to-Z menu in Horizon (if you can’t see it, please log a ticket).
2. Open ChemDraw.
3. If asked to select a licensing option, select Activation code and then Continue.
4. As long as you’ve registered with Revvity (as above), ChemDraw should open. If you experience any issues, insert the activation code you were provided with when you registered with Revvity.
To install ChemDraw on a personal device
1. On your personal device go to https://login.revvitysignals.com and log in (as an existing user) with your University email address and the password you set when you registered with Revvity.
2. Select Download Now and enter the activation code, if requested.

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/it-services-intranet/documents
SOURCE_DOC: connecting-to-eduroam.pdf

IT Services
Connecting to eduroam (WiFi)
Please note: If you have any issues with following the steps below, please contact IT Services on 01274 233333 or visit the IT Bar in the J. B. Priestley Library.
Before you begin
- You must be on the University of Bradford campus to connect using these instructions.
- Your device must be protected with a PIN, password, pattern, or stronger screen lock.
Install the ‘geteduroam’ app
Note: You may need to use mobile data to complete this step.
1. In the app store on your device, search for the geteduroam app (published by SURF Cooperative) and install it.
Connect to eduroam
1. Once the geteduroam app is installed on your device, open the app.
2. On the configuration screen, within the ‘Select an institution...’ field, enter Bradford.
3. Select University of Bradford when it appears and then select Next.
4. Enter your University username with @bradford.ac.uk appended (for example, jrblogg2@bradford.ac.uk) and your University password.
Note: Your University username is not the same as your University email address (your username does not contain dots, and may be shorter than your email address).
5. Select Connect to Network - you should then see a ‘Wi-Fi configured’ message.
6. Select Ok.

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/it-services-intranet/documents
SOURCE_DOC: connecting-to-the-rds-share.pdf

IT Services
Connecting to the RDS share
Who is this guide for?
This guide is specifically for researchers who have been provided with a ‘network share address’ by IT Services with which to connect to the RDS share.
Windows devices
Note: If you are off campus, you’ll first need to sign into Bradford on Demand (BoD) before following the steps from within the BoD window.
1. Open the File Explorer and then select This PC on the left pane.
2. On the menu bar, select Computer and then Map Network Drive.
3. Select the Drive letter you’d like to use.
4. In the Folder field, enter the network share address you’ve been provided with by IT Services.
5. Check the Reconnect at sign-In box (if it’s not already checked).
6. Select Finish.
7. When prompted, enter your University username with ‘@bradford.ac.uk’ appended – for example, jrblogg2@bradford.ac.uk – and your University password. The mapped drive will appear on the left pane of the File Explorer under the letter you selected in step 3.
Mac devices
Note: The device must be on campus and connected to the network.
1. Launch Finder.
2. Select Go and then Connect to Server.
3. Enter smb:// and then enter the network share address you’ve been provided with by IT Services after this.
4. Select Connect. If you are prompted, select Connect again.
5. When prompted, enter your University username with ‘@bradford.ac.uk’ appended – for example, jrblogg2@bradford.ac.uk – and your University password. The mapped drive will appear on the desktop and in Finder.
6. To ensure the drive stays mapped at sign-in, follow these steps:
  a. Ensure the drive is connected to the Mac device.
  b. Select the Apple logo in the top left corner and go to System Preferences.
  c. Select the Users & Groups icon.
  d. Select the user that has access to the drive and then select Login Items on the right-hand side.
  e. Select the + icon in the bottom left corner.
  f. Navigate to the drive and select Add.

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/it-services-intranet/documents
SOURCE_DOC: evision-overview-for-students.pdf

IT Services
e:Vision - overview for students
This document assumes that you have completed your enrolment processes and that you are a registered as a current student at the University.
If there are any discrepancies, please email records@bradford.ac.uk describing the issues concerned.
Access e:Vision
On the University Portal select the e:Vision link on the left menu.
Course tab
Depending on whether you are an undergraduate or postgraduate research student you will see different information on your Course tab.
- Undergraduate Course tab shows: the photo we have on file for you, a summary of the course you are studying, the award you are aiming for, and your course supervisors and personal tutors.
- Postgraduate Research Course tab shows: the photo we have on file for you, your visa expiry date (if applicable), your registration commencement and expiry dates, the award you are aiming for, and the contact details of your principal supervisor and any associate supervisors.
Contact tab
The Contact tab displays your term-time and home addresses, full name, date of birth and ethnicity.
To change one of the addresses listed for you, select the relevant Edit button – for example Edit Home details. Your current and any previous addresses you’ve had will be listed.
Complete the form with your new details and then select Store.
Enrolments tab
The Enrolments tab displays your enrolments and suspensions at the University. If you feel these are incorrect, please contact records@bradford.ac.uk with details of amendments you feel need to be made.
Modules / Marks tab
The Modules / Marks tab displays the Modules you are enrolled on. You can also see any exam results and questionnaires you have completed.
- To view your results, select View next to ‘Progression / Award Information’ (note: If the View button is not displayed, your department will have temporarily switched this off while processing results. It will be switched on again when they become available for viewing).
- To view a detailed breakdown of a result, select the + symbol next to the module code.
To display all components within all modules, select the + symbol in the link below ‘Progression / Award Information’.
Notes tab
The Notes tab displays tutorial notes entered by your personal tutor or supervisor, and contact notes entered by other staff members.
Finance tab
The Finance tab summarises any unpaid fees you may owe to the University. To see a detailed list of all transactions, select the link displayed.
Learner Support tab
The Learner Support tab enables you to take screening questionnaire as a first step to determining whether you have a learning difficulty for which the University may need to make some adjustments.
To take the questionnaire, select the Complete the Screening Questionnaire button.
If you have a confirmed Learner Support Profile (LSP) you can view it, and any adjustments that have been made by the University by selecting the link.
Research tab
This tab is only available to Postgraduate Research students.
The Research tab enables you to see your approved thesis titles and research milestones (by descendin Academic Year).
Milestones can be filtered by annual progress reports, suspension of registrations, or extension of registration authorised.
- To display a detailed breakdown of the individual research milestone, select the + symbol next to the research event.
- To expand all research milestones, select the + symbol in the blue text instructions at the top of the screen.
- To collapse all research milestones, select the – symbol.

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/it-services-intranet/documents
SOURCE_DOC: horizon.pdf

IT Services
Horizon
A guide for how to use Horizon to access learning and teaching software applications from anywhere, at any time, via any device.
What is Horizon?
The Horizon service makes it possible to access learning and teaching software applications from anywhere, at any time, via any device - bringing convenience and flexibility for you, for timetabling, and in the use of space on campus.
Software applications are installed within Horizon and are accessed 'on demand' as and when needed. All the processing work is done by Horizon, providing a high-speed, consistent learning and teaching desktop experience.
You can access Horizon from student cluster computers, lecture theatre and GTA (general teaching area) computers, and from your own personal computer.
Note: You don’t have to use Horizon to access general online services (like Canvas, e:Vision, Timetabling, and Microsoft 365 online services) – you can access these directly from the University Portal and https://www.microsoft365.com/apps.
Access Horizon from a student cluster computer
1. Sign into a cluster computer with your University username with @bradford.ac.uk appended - for example: jrblogg2@bradford.ac.uk - and your University password.
The computer desktop will load. On this desktop you can only use the web browser (Edge). To access specialist software, Microsoft Office, and your OneDrive files, use Horizon. To do this:
2. Double click on the Horizon icon on the desktop, or from the tile in the Start menu.
3. If you are prompted to approve your sign in request, go ahead and approve it (for example via an app notification on your mobile device).
4. If the virtual desktop does not automatically load at this point, double click on it. Note: Most people will only have access to one virtual desktop. If you see multiple virtual desktops and you aren’t sure which one to use, please ask your module leader.
5. Once the virtual desktop loads, hover your mouse over the top part of the screen to see the Horizon menu. Here you can: 
  a. Pin the menu (so it always remains on screen) or unpin it (this will auto hide at the top of the screen. If the menu is hidden, you can retrieve it simply by hovering your mouse at the top of the screen).
  b. See the name of the virtual desktop you’re connected to.
  c. Minimise the menu by using the arrows button.
  d. Move the position of the menu by clicking and dragging the 10 dots at the left hand side.
  e. Exit the fullscreen mode by selecting the Exit Fullscreen button.
  f. Access more settings by selecting the ellipses (three dots) and then Settings.
  g. If you need to Ctrl+Alt+Del, use the Ctrl+Alt+Del button on the menu (manually pressing Ctrl+Alt+Del on your keyboard affects the physical computer, not the virtual desktop).
See the Using Horizon section to learn how to access software and your files, and how to log out properly afterwards.
Access Horizon from a lecture theatre / GTA computer
For this first phase of Horizon VDI, lecture theatre and GTA computers (that connect to AV equipment) have not been fully reimaged. Everything that is already installed on the physical computer remains installed.
However, in addition, you can access specialist software applications for teaching by accessing Horizon on these computers. To do this:
1. Double click on the Horizon icon on the desktop.
2. If you are prompted to approve your sign in request, go ahead and approve it (for example via an app notification on your mobile device).
3. If the virtual desktop does not automatically load at this point, double click on it (most people will only have access to one).
4. Once the virtual desktop loads, hover your mouse over the top part of the screen to see the Horizon menu. Here you can:
  a. Pin the menu (so it always remains on screen) or unpin it (this will auto hide at the top of the screen. If the menu is hidden, you can retrieve it simply by hovering your mouse at the top of the screen).
  b. See the name of the virtual desktop you’re connected to.
  c. Minimise the menu by using the arrows button.
  d. Move the position of the menu by clicking and dragging the 10 dots at the left hand side.
  e. Exit the fullscreen mode by selecting the Exit Fullscreen button.
  f. Access more settings by selecting the ellipses (three dots) and then Settings.
  g. If you need to Ctrl+Alt+Del, use the Ctrl+Alt+Del button on the menu (manually pressing Ctrl+Alt+Del on your keyboard affects the physical computer, not the virtual desktop).
5. See the Using Horizon section to learn how to access software and your files, and how to log out properly afterwards.
Access Horizon from your own personal computer
You can access Horizon simply via your browser, or you install the Horizon client onto your computer if you wish. Instructions for both ways are included below.
Installing the client is the recommended method for the best experience.
Note: Your computer must have a reasonable internet connection.
Option one - via your browser
1. Enter the following URL in your browser: https://horizon.bradford.ac.uk (or, you can select the Horizon link on the left menu of the University Portal).
2. Select VMWare Horizon HTML Access.
3. If you are prompted to sign in, enter your University username with @bradford.ac.uk appended - for example, jrblogg2@bradford.ac.uk - and select Next. (If you are not prompted to sign in, skip to step 4 below).
On the next screen, enter your University password and then select Sign in.
4. If you are prompted to approve your sign in request, go ahead and approve it (for example via an app notification on your mobile device).
5. If the virtual desktop does not automatically load at this point, double click on it. Note: Most people will only have access to one virtual desktop. If you see multiple virtual desktops and you aren’t sure which one to use, please ask your module leader.
6. Once the virtual desktop loads, select the pop out tab at the left of the screen for additional options, including multi-monitor support (via Settings).
Note: the virtual desktop will open in fullscreen mode. You can quit fullscreen mode by selecting Quit fullscreen from the menu, or by pressing (and holding) the Esc key on your keyboard.
See the Using Horizon section to learn how to access software and your files, and how to log out properly afterwards.
Option two – by installing the Horizon client
Note:
- If you are a member of staff with a University-provided Windows 10 computer, install the Horizon client from the Software Center in your Start menu. (If you already have the client, and installed it prior to September 2023, you’ll need to install the latest version by going to the Start menu - Software Centre, select the Horizon Client application and then Install).
- If you find that you are unable to download the client, please contact IT Servicedesk.
Install the Windows client
1. Download the Horizon client for Windows.
2. Once the client is downloaded, open the file (select Yes if you’re asked if you want to allow the application to make changes).
3. Follow the prompts on screen to agree and install the client.
4. Restart your computer when prompted.
5. After restarting your computer, run the VMWare Horizon client from your Start menu.
6. Select Add Server.
7. In the box that appears, enter horizon.bradford.ac.uk and then select Connect.
8. If you are prompted to sign in, enter your University username with @bradford.ac.uk appended - for example, jrblogg2@bradford.ac.uk - and select Next. (If you don’t see this screen, skip to step 9 below).
On the next screen, enter your University password and then select Sign in.
9. If you are prompted to approve your sign in request, go ahead and approve it (for example via an app notification on your mobile device).
10. If asked, check the Always allow horizon.bradford.ac.uk to open links of this type in the associated app box and then select Open.
11. Enter your University username with @bradford.ac.uk appended - for example, jrblogg2@bradford.ac.uk - and your password, and then select Login.
12. If the virtual desktop does not automatically load at this point, double click on it. Note: Most people will only have access to one virtual desktop. If you see multiple virtual desktops and you aren’t sure which one to use, please ask your module leader.
If you have multiple monitors, you’ll have the option to use fullscreen mode.
You’ll have full access to the desktop, which is created when you sign in and is reset once you log out.
13. Once the virtual desktop loads, hover your mouse over the top part of the screen to see the Horizon menu. Here you can:
  a. Pin the menu (so it always remains on screen) or unpin it (this will auto hide at the top of the screen. If the menu is hidden, you can retrieve it simply by hovering your mouse at the top of the screen).
  b. See the name of the virtual desktop you’re connected to.
  c. Minimise the menu by using the arrows button.
  d. Move the position of the menu by clicking and dragging the 10 dots at the left hand side.
  e. Exit the fullscreen mode by selecting the Exit Fullscreen button.
  f. Access more settings by selecting the ellipses (three dots) and then Settings.
  g. If you need to Ctrl+Alt+Del, use the Ctrl+Alt+Del button on the menu (manually pressing Ctrl+Alt+Del on your keyboard affects the physical computer, not the virtual desktop).
See the Using Horizon section to learn how to access software, and how to log out properly afterwards.
Install the Mac client
1. Download the Horizon client for MacOS.
2. Once the client is downloaded, select the VMware-Horizon-Client file on the Dock.
3. Select the Omnissa Horizon Client.pkg.
4. Select Continue and then Continue again.
5. Select Install.
6. You will get a prompt to install the software using Fingerprint or Password (depending on the model of your device).
7. Once installed, select Close.
8. Open your Applications folder and double click on the VMware Horizon Client (the app can be added to the application dock by dragging the Horizon application onto the application dock at the bottom of your screen).
9. At the ‘Unable to access Accessibility and Input Monitoring’ prompt, select OK.
10. Select + in the top right corner.
11. In the box that appears, enter horizon.bradford.ac.uk and then select Connect.
12. If you are prompted to sign in, enter your University username with @bradford.ac.uk appended - for example, jrblogg2@bradford.ac.uk - and select Next. (If you are not prompted to sign in, skip to step 12 below).
On the next screen, enter your University password and then select Sign in.
13. If you are prompted to approve your sign in request, go ahead and approve it (for example via an app notification on your mobile device).
14. In the login box, enter your University username with @bradford.ac.uk appended - for example, jrblogg2@bradford.ac.uk - and your password, and select Login.
15. Select Allow at the ‘Do you want to allow this page to open VMWare Horizon Client’ prompt.
16. If the virtual desktop does not automatically load at this point, double click on it. Note: Most people will only have access to one virtual desktop. If you see multiple virtual desktops and you aren’t sure which one to use, please ask your module leader.
17. If you have multiple monitors, you’ll have the option to use fullscreen mode.
You’ll have full access to the desktop which is created when you sign in and is reset once you log out.
18. Once the virtual desktop loads, hover your mouse over the top part of the screen to see the Horizon menu. Here you can:
  a. Pin the menu (so it always remains on screen) or unpin it (this will auto hide at the top of the screen. If the menu is hidden, you can retrieve it simply by hovering your mouse at the top of the screen).
  b. See the name of the virtual desktop you’re connected to.
  c. Minimise the menu by using the arrows button.
  d. Move the position of the menu by clicking and dragging the 10 dots at the left hand side.
  e. Exit the fullscreen mode by selecting the Exit Fullscreen button.
  f. Access more settings by selecting the ellipses (three dots) and then Settings.
  g. If you need to Ctrl+Alt+Del, use the Ctrl+Alt+Del button on the menu (manually pressing Ctrl+Alt+Del on your keyboard affects the physical computer, not the virtual desktop).
See the Using Horizon section to learn how to access software and your files, and how to log out properly afterwards.
Using Horizon
Finding general services
- Tiles: Use the tiles in the Start menu (Windows button) at the bottom left of the virtual desktop window to access the University Portal, intranet sites, Canvas, Microsoft 365 services, browsers, Microsoft Office applications, and your OneDrive (file storage).
- Email: You can access your email by opening the Microsoft 365 tile and selecting Outlook.
- Your files: You can access your OneDrive either from the OneDrive tile in the Start menu, or from the yellow File Explorer on the taskbar.
Accessing specialist software applications
Note: Software applications are assigned to you depending on your Faculty’s requirements. If you are missing an application, please contact IT Services.
Find software applications in the A-Z list on the Start menu (Windows button) at the bottom left of the virtual desktop window.
Note: If Horizon is in non-fullscreen mode you’ll see two sets of Start menus and taskbars: one for the physical computer you’re using (outer), and one for the virtual desktop (inner). You need to be in the ‘inner’ Start menu to see the list of apps.
A small number of software applications are delivered in a slightly different way to how the majority are delivered. This means that for some applications when you open them you may see a pop up in the bottom right of the screen. Please do not close this pop up as it will stop the app from opening.
Printing
You can print as normal from within Horizon. Go to File – Print – and select the relevant printer. To use to a printer on campus, select PaperCut from the list displayed.
Saving files
You can save files as normal from within Horizon. Go to File – Save As – and then select either your OneDrive, or a collaborative space (SharePoint group) from the Sites option.
Inactivity and auto sign out
- If you are ‘inactive’ (you don’t use your mouse or keyboard) within the virtual desktop for 15 minutes, the virtual desktop will automatically sign you out.
- If you ‘disconnect’ (by selecting the X on the menu on the Horizon client, or by closing the browser on the Horizon web-based virtual desktop), the virtual desktop will remain active for 15 minutes after which it will automatically sign out. If you reconnect to the same virtual desktop during that time, your session will still be active. In addition, if you remain in the virtual desktop for longer than 10 hours, a warning will be displayed before it automatically closes.
How to log out
Open the Start menu on the virtual desktop and select the Log out tile.
Important: If you’re using a student cluster or lecture theatre / GTA computer you must also log out of the physical computer before leaving (again, via the Start menu - Log out tile).
Help
If you have any issues with connecting to or using Horizon, please contact IT Services.

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/it-services-intranet/documents
SOURCE_DOC: installing-office-365.pdf

IT Services
Installing Microsoft 365 apps
Students and staff can install Microsoft 365 apps (Outlook, OneDrive for Business, Word, Excel, PowerPoint, and others) free of charge on up to five personally owned devices. When you leave the University, your subscription will end.
PC or Mac
1. In your browser, go to https://www.microsoft365.com 
2. Sign in with your University username with @bradford.ac.uk appended - for example: jrblogg2@bradford.ac.uk - and your University password.
3. At the top right, select Install apps and then select Microsoft 365 apps from the menu.
4. Follow the on-screen instructions to install the apps.
5. Once installed, open any of the Microsoft 365 apps. You’ll be asked to provide your email address, but instead you must enter your University username with @bradford.ac.ukappended – for example jrblogg2@bradford.ac.uk. This will activate your licence for all the apps.
Android or iOS
Search for and download Office apps individually from:
- Google Play for Android devices, including Chromebooks.
- App Store for iOS devices.
The first time you run each app, you’ll need to enter your University credentials (your username with @bradford.ac.ukappended – for example jrblogg2@bradford.ac.uk – and your password).

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/it-services-intranet/documents
SOURCE_DOC: matlab.pdf

IT Services
MATLAB and Simulink
MATLAB and Simulink are mathematical computing software for engineers, scientists, mathematicians, and researchers.
The University of Bradford has a campus-wide licence to MATLAB, Simulink, and a full-suite of products The licence allows staff, students, and researchers to download and install these products on their personally owned computers.
Note: Commercial use of these products is not covered by the licence.
Get MATLAB and Simulink
On University-owned computers
- On University-owned staff computers MATLAB can be accessed via Horizon, or you can log a ServiceNow ticket to request for it to be installed.
- On University cluster computers you can find MATLAB in the Start menu.
- On University-provided student laptops: 
1. In the Start menu, search for Software Center and open this.
2. In the list of applications in the Software Center, find and install MATLAB.
3. In a browser, go to https://uk.mathworks.com/academia/tah-support-program/eligibility.html and register for a MATLAB account (please use your University email address when registering).
On personal computers
Note: If you need help with the steps below please contact MathWorks Installation Support.
To install MATLAB and Simulink on your personally owned computer:
1. Go to MathWorks’ University of Bradford MATLAB site.
2. Under the ‘Get MATLAB and Simulink’ section, select Sign in to get started.
3. You will be asked to create a MathWorks account. Once you’ve done this, sign in using your MathWorks account (note: you may be asked to login with your University credentials first).
4. Select Download for the current release (you can also download previous releases here).
5. Choose a supported platform and download and run the installer.
6. Within the installer, select Log in with a MathWorks Account and follow the instructions.
7. When prompted to do so, select the Academic – Total Headcount license labelled Individual.
8. Select the products you want to download and install.
9. After downloading and installing your products, ensure the Activate MATLAB checkbox is selected, and select Next.
10. Follow the prompts to activate MATLAB.

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/it-services-intranet/documents
SOURCE_DOC: minitab.pdf

IT Services
Minitab
Minitab is a computer application for statistical analysis.
Please note that alternative applications such as SPSS or Matlab Statistics Toolbox might be more appropriate for advanced analysis.
University computers
Minitab is available on all cluster PCs and on staff PCs in some departments. To access it, click on Start - All Programs - Data Analysis.
Personal computers
A licence from Minitab allows the University to distribute Minitab for Windows for use on personal computers belonging to current students and staff of the University only.
These instructions show how to install Minitab 20 on a Windows 10 64-bit device - other versions of Windows may vary slightly.
1. Double click on this minitab.zip file and select Extract All.
2. Double click on the Minitab installer file.
3. Choose a setup language, select Next, and then Next again.
4. Check the I accept the terms … box in the licence agreement.
5. Select activate with license and then select File and Browse.
6. Browse to the location to which you extracted the files in Step 1 (by default, this will be ‘Downloads’).
7. Select minitab.lic and then Open.
8. Select Next, Next again, and then Install.
Help
Tutorials are available within the Minitab system via the Help button on the menu bar.
For further help and support, contact IT Services or Minitab.

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/it-services-intranet/documents
SOURCE_DOC: nvivo.pdf

IT Services
NVivo
NVivo is software that supports qualitative and mixed methods research. It helps you organize, analyse, and find insights in unstructured, or qualitative data like interviews, open-ended survey responses, articles, social media, and web content.
Availability
- NVivo is available from the Start menu on University general cluster computers. Note: It is not available on the Engineering and Informatics cluster computers.
- Students and staff can install NVivo on personal computers using the instructions below.
Installing NVivo
Note: You will first need to apply for an authorisation code. This code will be emailed to you and will be valid from 1 August to 31 July the following year (to renew your licence, please complete the same form).
Once you’ve received the code, follow the steps below:
1. Download this NVivo12.x64 installer.
2. Open the folder it downloaded to, and double click on the application file.
3. Select the language and then OK.
4. Wait for the extraction to complete and then select Next.
5. Accept the terms of the license agreement and select Next.
6. Select Next to continue - you can choose if you want a shortcut on your desktop.
7. Uncheck the boxes which are not relevant in the Supplementary Add-ons window (if you use Google Chrome then deselect Internet Explorer) and then select Next.
8. Select Install and wait for this process to complete – this can take several minutes.
9. Select Finish.
10. Enter the licence key you received and then select Next.
11. Complete the activation form and then select Activate.
12. Select OK once your licence has been activated.
13. Enter your name and initials. Remove the check from the ‘Participate in the Customer Experience Improvement Program’ box, and then select OK.
NVivo should now launch.
Running multiple versions
You can install the most recent version and run that alongside an older version; however, you'll need to obtain a renewal activation code for the older version. If you do not have any compelling reason to run an older version, we would advise that you run only the most current version.
Help
Note: If you encounter problems with installing NVivo, please contact IT Services with a full description of the issue, including error numbers and screenshots if possible.
For more detailed help visit the NVivo site.

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/it-services-intranet/documents
SOURCE_DOC: onedrive-quick-guide.pdf

IT Services
OneDrive quick guide
This guide is intended for staff and students who are using OneDrive (via their University Microsoft 365 account) to store, access and share University files.
OneDrive is cloud storage that you can access anywhere with an internet connection. You get 100GB of storage space.
Access OneDrive
1. Go to https://www.microsoft365.com/apps and sign in with your University username (with '@bradford.ac.uk appended, for example jrblogg2@bradford.ac.uk) and password.
2. Select OneDrive from the list of apps displayed.
Note: The above describes how to access OneDrive via the web. On University computers you can also access OneDrive directly via File Explorer by selecting OneDrive – University of Bradford from the folder list on the left.
Create a folder
1. Select New and then select Folder.
2. Enter a name and select Create.
Note that you also have options to create a Word document, Excel workbook, a link, and more.
Upload files or folders
1. Select New and then either Files upload or Folder upload. (Please be patient if you are uploading a several files at the same time, or particularly large files. Make sure that everything has uploaded correctly before closing your browser).
2. Navigate to the file or folder on your computer and select Open (for a file), or Upload (for a folder). You can also drag and drop files from Explorer into OneDrive.
Right click on a file once it’s uploaded to get options to delete, move, copy, rename etc.
Note: on University computers the following folders on the computer will automatically be synced up to your OneDrive: ‘Desktop’, ‘Documents’, and ‘Pictures’. Please don’t delete or move these folders from your OneDrive.
Save a file to OneDrive
Note: Saving a file to OneDrive via the method described below is only applicable for University computers.
1. From the application you are working in (for example, Microsoft Word), select File – Save As.
2. Select OneDrive – University of Bradford (your username will appear underneath.
3. Select a subfolder within OneDrive if necessary.
Share files with others
1. Right click on the file you want to share and then select Share.
2. In the panel that opens, enter the name of the person, or people you want to share with and select them. (There are also options in this panel to allow the recipients to be able to edit the file, rather than just view it).
3. Type a message if you wish, and then select Send. The recipients will receive an email inviting them to view the file, along with a link.
Important:
- Be aware that when you leave the University, anyone with whom you’ve shared any files or folders with will no longer be able to access them.
- Any business-critical files that need to be accessible to others should be stored in an Office 365
Group or a team (in Microsoft Teams) instead of your OneDrive.
- Periodically review your OneDrive folders and files and remove any access you’ve given for files when they no longer need to be shared.
View files shared with you
1. On the left sidebar in OneDrive select Shared. This shows files others have shared with you.
Restore a previous version
1. Right click on the file and select Version history. This shows all the saved versions.
2. Select the down arrow next to the version you wish to restore to confirm.
Delete and recover a file
1. Right click on the file and select Delete. To recover a file:
2. On the sidebar on the left, select Recycle bin.
3. Right click on the file and select Restore. This will return it to your OneDrive storage.
Important: Deleted items are moved to OneDrive's Recycle bin and retained for 90 days (or until the bin is emptied). After this, files cannot be recovered.
Move files between folders
1. Right click on the file and select Move to.
2. On the right sidebar, select Your OneDrive, then select the destination folder and select Move here.
Learn more
See Microsoft's OneDrive guidance.

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/it-services-intranet/documents
SOURCE_DOC: online-safety-tips.pdf

IT Services
Online safety tips
Passwords
- Use a strong password and, where two factor authentication is available, it's advisable to use it.
- Never save passwords.
- Never share passwords.
- Change your passwords frequently.
- Don't reuse old passwords.
- Don't record passwords where someone else could find them.
- Don't use the same password for different services - for example, online banking and social networks.
- Ensure nobody is watching when you enter your password.
- Consider creating a password safe.
- See the University's password advice.
Phishing, emails, and attachments
- Unfortunately, it’s common to get phishing emails. Phishing is a security threat. Don't be taken in by fake emails claiming you need to update your email account or that it's run out of space, or that some foreign banker, minister, or general's daughter needs your help for "$42,000,000 FORTY TWO MILLION US DOLARS!".
- If your details are requested – for example, by a bank, do not select links in the email, or reply; the email is likely to be fraudulent. If in doubt, independently navigate to their legitimate website using their known web address.
- Be careful with email links. Hover over them to check the web address that you will go to is actually the same as what is written in the link. If in doubt, open a web browser and manually type in what you know as the correct web address for the site, or Google it!
- Don't download attachments from sources you don't recognise - these often contain viruses.
- When downloading attachments from sources you do recognise, run a scan for threats for opening them.
Websites and social networking
- When logging in to a web site or providing secure information, such as credit card details, ensure you are entering them on a secure site. You can do this by looking for the padlock symbol in the address bar in your web browser.
- Never share your personal details (date of birth, home address, bank details etc) via email or social networking sites. It can lead to identity theft or worse.
- Be careful of any information you do share, and who you share it with.
- Anything you put on the web can escape into the public domain.
- Beware of what information can be gleaned about you and by whom from what you post, both text and images. For example, your home address, photos outside your front door, where you are now and how often you go there (for example, if you check in at a location). Many devices now embed GPS coordinates in the photographs they take!
Antivirus and updates
- Ensure your devices have the latest updates and antivirus installed.
- Ensure your antivirus updates its signatures frequently.
Downloads
Make sure you are downloading legal content from legitimate sites and trusted sources. Otherwise, you may download more than you were expecting to – for example, malware.
Shared computer
If you share your computer with other members of your family, make sure they have their own accounts.
This will prevent:
- Personal information and passwords being remembered by your browser and used by others.
- Children accessing age-inappropriate content accidentally. Consider using the Microsoft Windows family safety features. Younger users may find the CBBC stay safe online page helpful.
Phones and tablets
Help keep data on your phone, tablet or other mobile device safe with our mobile security advice for students, and mobile security advice for staff.
Also, see the University's Mobile Device Policy and Terms of Use.
Reporting data breaches and phishing at the University
- Report data breaches via the security breach form within ServiceNow as soon as possible.
- Report phishing using the buttons in Outlook.

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/it-services-intranet/documents
SOURCE_DOC: online-surveys.pdf

IT Services
Online Surveys
Online Surveys - formerly called Bristol Online Survey (BOS) - is a Jisc service that allows you to develop, deploy, and analyse surveys via the web.
A variety of question types are available, complex data flows can be built up using filter questions, and there are some very easy to use data analysis tools. No complicated setup or technical knowledge is needed.
Note: if you want to create a simple questionnaire, you may find that Microsoft Forms is sufficient. Microsoft Forms is available as part of your University Office 365 account.
Get access to Online Surveys
Please contact IT Services to request access. Once you’ve been granted access, you’ll be able to sign in to create your survey.
How to use Online Surveys
You can find support articles and a knowledge base on the Online Surveys website.

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/it-services-intranet/documents
SOURCE_DOC: opening-and-sending-large-files.pdf

IT Services
Opening and sending large files
There is a 25 MB limit on messages that can be sent and received through Outlook. If you want to send a file (or files) that exceed this limit, you can use either file compression or the ZendTo service:
- File compression can be used on multiple files or a single large file. The compressed folder produced may then be small enough to be sent through email.
- The ZendTo service enable you to simply dropped off and picked up files without the need to do anything to them first.
Note: Sensitive or confidential files must be encrypted with a password.
Option 1: File compression
Creating a compressed (zipped) folder enables you to store large or multiple files in a format that requires less space. This makes downloading files from the web and emailing attachments faster and easier.
Compressing files
Right click on the file(s) to be compressed, select Send to and then select Compressed (Zipped) Folder.
This will create a zipped folder in the same location as the file(s) it contains. If you want to rename the compressed folder, right click on it and select Rename.
Extracting files from a compressed folder
Extracting a single file
This method is for extracting a single file from a folder containing one or more files.
Note: Software sent as a compressed folder containing multiple files should not be extracted in this way. If you don’t know what’s in the compressed folder, use this method to view the contents.
1. Double click on the compressed folder. The folder will open in a new window.
2. Drag the file from the compressed folder to a new location in the navigation pane on the left of the window.
Extracting all files within a compressed folder
1. Right click on the compressed folder and select Extract All….
2. In the ‘Select a Destination and Extract Files’ window, a proposed folder into which the files will be extracted appears. If you want to change this, select Browse.
3. Check the Show extracted files when complete box and select Extract. A progress bar may appear. When complete the extracted files will be displayed in their destination folder.
Deleting a compressed folder
After files have been extracted, a copy of the compressed folder remains. To delete it, right click on the folder and select Delete.
Option 2: ZendTo
ZendTo is a web based service for dropping off and collecting files and compressed folders up to 10GB. Files can be dropped off for members of the University as well as non-members. All dropped off files are hosted within the University.
Note: Sensitive or confidential files must be encrypted with a password.
Drop-off
1. Log in to ZendTo with your University username and password and select Drop-off.
2. On the next screen, enter your organisation and select Next.
3. Select the plus button to add the recipient’s name and email address. Multiple recipients can be added.
4. Add a short note if required and then select Browse to find and select the file to be uploaded. Multiple files can be added if the total does not exceed 10GB.
5. Ensure that all details are correct and select Drop-off Files.
6. When the file is successfully uploaded, a summary page will display with a claim ID and passcode which will be sent in the email to the recipient.
Note: Files are automatically deleted 14 days after upload. To delete them sooner, select the file and then select Delete Drop-off.
Request a drop-off
To request non-members of the University to drop off a file for you, log in and click on Request a Drop-off. This will make the process quicker for the other person.
Pick-up
1. When you receive an email from ZendTo, select the link. You should only do this if you recognise the sender. Alternatively, log in to ZendTo and select Pick-Up.
2. Enter the claim ID and passcode within in the ZendTo email and select Pick-up the File(s).

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/it-services-intranet/documents
SOURCE_DOC: password-policy.pdf

IT Services
Password Policy
1. Introduction
1.1 This document forms the password policy and guidance for staff, students and third parties.
1.2 The policy has been drawn from the controls referenced in the University’s IT Acceptable use Policy and guidance from the National Cyber Security Centre. This is to ensure that passwords used to access computer resources are carefully chosen, kept, and updated in line with the University Acceptable standards.
1.3 The University’s IT Acceptable Use Policy states that all users are responsible for all activity that takes place under their username and must not allow anyone else to access IT resources using their username and password. Users must therefore take all necessary steps to protect and maintain the security of their passwords, to ensure confidentiality, integrity, and availability of the University’s resources.
1.4 This policy dictates the minimum that a user must do to conform to this requirement when selecting and updating a password.
1.5 The University uses ‘single sign on’ where possible so that a user can authenticate seamlessly against multiple services.
1.6 Core IT systems and services such as email and remote access will be protected by multi factor authentication (MFA).
1.7 All University IT systems use password authentication as a minimum.
2. Scope
2.1 This policy applies to students, staff, temporary workers, associates, and other workers at the University, including all personnel affiliated with third parties such as contractors / consultants, and emeritus users who have been provided with a University IT account.
2.2 This policy applies to standard users. Additional requirements for privileged users / administrators, and system specific accounts, are defined in a controls document approved and managed by the IT Services department.
3. Policy statements
3.1 All University users and third parties must:
- set a unique password for their University account
- not re-use the password
- not use their University password for any other services, whether personal or work / study related
3.2 All University users and third parties must protect their password and not share them with other users. The use of shared generic accounts will only be permitted following approval by IT Services, and in exceptional cases only.
3.3 Passwords shall be at least 12 characters in length, although longer passwords or passphrases are recommended.
3.4 Passwords must not contain the following:
- name or account username
- date of birth
- address (or any part of it)
- name of relatives or pets
- other personally identifiable information
3.5 If a University user knows or suspects that their password has been compromised, they must immediately notify IT Services, and change their password.
3.6 New passwords must not be the same as previously used passwords. Where possible, technical controls will be used to enforce this restriction.
3.7 A password change will be enforced without notice when in response to security incidents and emerging risks or where IT monitoring detects suspicious activity.
3.8 Passwords must not be based on commonly used passwords – for example, ‘qwerty1234’, ‘pa55word1234’ etc. Where possible, technical controls should be used to enforce this restriction.
3.9 Passphrases, including groups of random words are recommended as good strong password choices – for example, ‘Mybr0th3r1sta11’.
4. Multi factor authentication (MFA)
4.1 MFA protects user accounts and information by combining a password with an added factor – this includes, but is not limited to, a smartphone authenticator app, a one-time password or pin (OTP), an SMS text code, and a hardware token / key.
4.2 All University users and third parties must enrol in University MFA
processes, where they are deployed, to protect their account.
4.3 IT advice and guidance on password and MFA can be found on the IT Services intranet site.
5. Enforcement and sanctions
5.1 The University reserves the right to audit compliance with the policy from time to time. The breach of this policy shall be dealt with in accordance with the University’s Disciplinary Policy.

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/it-services-intranet/documents
SOURCE_DOC: research-data-management-it-security-guidance.pdf

It Service
Research data management
IT security guidance
1. Introduction and purpose
The purpose of this document is to set out University of Bradford’s guidance for members of the University engaging in research in relation to the security of data, and to signpost researchers to relevant specific guidance. This document complements the Research Data Management Policy.
2. What is research data management?
Research data management (RDM) is a model which helps us to store, preserve and share data collected during a research project. The current definition of Research Data Management can be found in the Research Data Management Policy.
3. What are data?
Research Data: is the evidence that underpins the answer to the research question and can be used to validate findings. This might be quantitative information or qualitative statements collected by researchers in the course of their work by experimentation, observation, modelling, interview or other methods, or information derived from existing evidence. Research data may take the form of numbers, symbols, text, images or sounds, including computer code, annotated fieldwork observations, or a descriptive record of a physical sample. Appropriately stored and secured data is necessary for compliance with data protection legislation e.g. the General Data Protection rules (GDPR) Security Rule; A key principle of the UK GDPR is that personal data should be processed and secured by means of appropriate technical and organisational measures.
When data is properly stored, it can be quickly and easily accessed by appropriate persons when required.
All data is valuable and should be appropriately protected depending on how sensitive the data is.
4. Scope
This document applies to all staff and students at the University of Bradford engaged in research activities. It also applies to anyone working in the University, including casual workers, visiting or emeritus researchers, associates, honorary contract holders, consultants, agents, volunteers, or contractors undertaking research under the auspices of the University of Bradford, using the University’s facilities, on the University’s premises anywhere in the world, or elsewhere on behalf of the University.
This document also applies in full to undergraduates and taught postgraduates whose research findings are included in published research outputs. The University of Bradford will provide training support, and in turn expect all students to adhere to the principles of good Research Data management and academic integrity.
5. Glossary
Encryption is the process of converting data into a code, especially to prevent unauthorized access.
Information Store is where information is held / stored, for example, paper records in a filing cabinet, data held in IT systems, records stored onsite and offsite (e.g., in the Cloud), approved encrypted removable media. This list is not exhaustive.
6. Information Owners.
Information Owners are accountable for information held within the Information Store including the approval of any processing activities. In the University, Data Stewards or Principal Investigators are types of Information Owner. Where the information in an Information Store is created through many processing activities and accessed by many users (such as the University’s research studies), the Information Owner may delegate responsibility for the processing activities to a ‘Processing Activity Owner’. Information Owners may include, for example, the creators of databases, spreadsheets, computer code or physical sample collections (this list is not intended to be exhaustive) where they may also be the Processing Activity Owner. The Research Data Management Policy document describes the wider accountabilities of Information Owners / Principal Investigators.
7. Intellectual Property Rights
Intellectual Property Rights (IPR) are subject to the University’s Intellectual Property Policy and guidance. IPR might also be defined through further agreements e.g., grants, consortium agreements, or commercial agreements.
Where no external agreement exists, the University generally has ownership of Research Data generated during research undertaken by Researchers.
8. Data protection legislation
The Data Protection Act (2018) and UK GDPR apply to all personal data collected and processed as part of a research project. Personal data is any data which could identify a living individual such as a name, a picture of an identifiable face, a National Insurance number etc. Personal data only ceases to become personal data when it is anonymised, not when it is pseudonymised. A list of student registration numbers is personal data because anybody with appropriate access to the correct systems can work out who an individual is from that data.
Data which identifies factors such as medical history, religious or political beliefs, or sexual orientation is particularly sensitive and is termed "special category data".
When you collect, process, and store personal data, there are various principles and safeguards that must be complied with. A legal basis for collecting personal data must also be demonstrated.
Anonymisation of personal data is a process of removing personally identifiable details from the data sets so that no individual person can be identified, directly or indirectly. When a person cannot be re-identified the information is no longer considered to be personal data and the UK’s data protection legislation ceases to apply.
9. Handling research data
Research Data should be held in an Information Store and made available for use in a suitable repository or archiving system, and whenever possible, provided with persistent identifiers. It is important to preserve the integrity of Research Data.
Research Data should be stored in an accurate, complete, unadulterated, and reliable manner. Furthermore, they should be identifiable, accessible, traceable, re-usable, and whenever possible, interoperable, and made available in a timely way with as few restrictions as possible.
Research Data should be assigned a licence for open use in compliance with legal, ethical, and contractual requirements, and providing no funder, third-party or contractual rights prohibit it.
Research Data should be of future interest and the records accompanying research projects should therefore also be archived. Data collected as part of the management and routine operations of a research.
Research Data is a legitimate product of research and should be cited as such, adhering to scholarly norms; re-used data must be explicitly traceable and original sources acknowledged.
Research software and systems should be verified and validated to ensure they meet specifications and that they fulfil their intended purpose.
Organise files and data for access and analysis to maintain correctness and reproducibility of research.
The minimum archive durations for Research Data and records are subject to the University’s recommended practices for destruction of data. If Research Data and records are to be deleted or destroyed, either after expiration of the required archive duration or for legal or ethical reasons, such action should be carried out only after considering all legal and ethical perspectives. The interests and contractual stipulations of third-party funders and other stakeholders, employees and partner participants in particular, as well as the aspects of confidentiality and security, must be taken into consideration when decisions about retention and destruction are made. Any action taken must be documented and be accessible for possible future audit.
10. Research data security
Use strong passwords. Make sure they are stored securely away from the research data which they are protecting. And do not share or be careless with your password. Password advice is available from IT Services: Your IT account (SharePoint).
Ensure that you lock your device if you leave it temporarily unattended, e.g., use the Windows key +L.
Keep physical copies of research data in secure environments where only those who are lawfully entitled to access it can do so.
Remember that identifiable personal information can be in any form (including digital, paper, audio, and video).
Consider digitising physical copies where appropriate as a backup or a replacement for paper copies.
Collect only what personal data you need and retain it only for as long as you need to, do not keep longer than appropriate.
Consider whether to do a Data Protection Impact Assessment (DPIA) to ensure GDPR requirements are met where there is a possibility that individual rights might be put at risk.
Make sure that you and the University can deliver on any specific data security arrangements prior to applying for funding or otherwise entering commitments (seek guidance if you are not sure).
Remotely access data from a device that was not provided by University of Bradford only where you have anti- virus, anti-spyware, and firewall. Research data must be stored on university owned infrastructure and / or University cloud storage.
Use an Information Store, for example on-premises IT infrastructure or University procured cloud services for data storage and Teams / SharePoint folders for data sharing. Use removable media only where there is a clear justification and appropriate security arrangements are in place. Do not download and store research data to your own PC.
Encryption can be used to secure research data, and you should contact IT Services for guidance on the level of encryption required for your research before data is collected.
Consider appropriate backup of research data.
Do not use unapproved Cloud storage; use only University procured cloud storage.
For archiving of research Data see the Research Data Management Policy.
Where Research data is in hard copy form, it should be secured in locked cabinets, with access only by those who have a legitimate right to see the data.
11. Roles and responsibilities
Responsibilities for Principal Investigators, Faculty and The University are detailed in the Research Data Management Policy.
12. Further information
Researchers who believe that the security of a UoB device may be compromised, or that a data breach may have occurred, must inform IT Servicedesk immediately by calling 01274 233333 or by logging a ticket via ServiceNow.
Queries relating to this research data management IT security guidance can be sent to Funmi Inije: o.inije@bradford.ac.uk.
13. Reference documents
- Research Data Management Policy (RDM)
- The University Guide on Data Protection: Data Protection (SharePoint)
- ISO/IEC 2040
- The Data Protection Act 2018 (DPA)
- The UK General Data Protection Regulation(UK GDPR)
- Universities UK (UUK)

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/it-services-intranet/documents
SOURCE_DOC: spss.pdf

IT Services
SPSS
About SPSS
SPSS is a computer application for statistical analysis. Analysis can be done in both interactive and non-interactive modes.
SPSS is available from the Start menu on cluster computers. Students and staff can also install SPSS on their personal computers. For this, you need to request a licence key. See the Installing SPSS section below.
Licence
The licence is valid for a year under the current agreement and expires on 31 July of each year. When installing SPSS on your personal computers, please select the following licence option:
- Site licence: used on standalone University PCs and personal computers. Site licence maintenance (license installation, renewal) is the responsibility of the user concerned.
Installing SPSS
To download SPSS on your own computer you will need:
-an Authorisation Code: this is valid from 1 August to 31 July the following year. To receive the code, please complete this online form (you’ll need to sign in with your University username – for example jrblogg2 - and your password) and the code will be emailed to you. If you want to renew your licence, please complete the same form. Once you have the code, follow the instructions below.
a Lock Code: this is only required if your computer does not have an internet connection and is specific to the computer on which you are going to install SPSS. Without this you will not be able to obtain the license from the supplier of SPSS. Please refer to the SPSS Installation guide.
Instructions for Windows 10 S operating system
Note: if your computer runs the Windows 10 S operating system, you would need to switch to Windows 10 Home before you can install SPSS.
Important: While Windows 10 in S mode is built for security and performance, it is unfortunately not easy to go back to S mode without wiping the entire operating system. If you wish to switch to Windows 10 Home, please follow the steps below first, and then follow the steps in the ‘Instructions for Windows’ section below. (If your computer does not run the Windows 10 S operating system, you can skip these instructions and go to the ‘Instructions for Windows’ section below).
1. Go to the Start button at the bottom left of your screen, and then Settings (just above the power icon).
2. Select Update & Security in the Settings app.
3. Select Activation, and then Go to the Store.
4. Select Get and then Install when ready to proceed.
5. You do not need to restart the PC for it to take effect. Now follow the ‘Instructions for Windows’ steps below.
Instructions for Windows
1. Go to this zip file[https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/:u:/r/sites/it-services-intranet/Software/Statistics_28_Win_64bit.exe].
2. When asked what you'd like to do, select Save.
3. Once the file has downloaded, select Open Folder.
4. Double click on the .exe file.
5. When the InstallShield Wizard opens, select Next.
6. Select I accept the terms in the license agreement and select Next.
7. Continue to follow the Wizard, selecting the default option on each screen and selecting I accept the terms of the License Agreement, and select Next until the final dialog box asking you to Install.
8. Once the installation has completed, make sure Start SPSS Statistics License Authorization Wizard now is selected and select Finish.
9. Ensure Authorized user licence is selected (make a note of the Lock Code that appears on screen, you may need it later) and select Next.
10. Enter the long authorization code you were given and then select Next.
11. Once the authorization has succeeded, select Next and Finish.
Your download is complete. You may be asked to reboot your computer before using SPSS.
Instructions for Mac
1. Open Safari (other browsers work, but follow slightly different steps).
2. Go to this .pkg file[https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/it-services-intranet/Software/SPSS_Statistics_Client_27_Mac.pkg]. The file will start to download. It may take several minutes, so watch the download bar.
3. Open Finder, go to the Download directory and double select .dmg.
4. On the SPSS_Statistics_Installer screen double click on SPSS_Statistics_Installer.
5. A screen called ‘Verifying SPSS_Statistics_Installer’ will briefly pop up and once the application has downloaded, it will say "SPSS_Statistics_Installer is an application downloaded and whether you want to open it". Select Open.
6. When it asks for a password, type in the password for your Mac and then select Install Helper. You may see the following message: ‘iCloud Drive may not work properly. Please check the iCloud preference pane. – Couldn’t communicate with a helper application’. Usually you can ignore this error message.
7. Continue to follow the Wizard, selecting the default option on each screen and selecting I accept the terms of the License Agreement and select Next until the final dialog box asking you to Install.
8. On the Python Essentials screen, select Yes and select Next.
9. Once the installation has completed, make sure Start SPSS Statistics License Authorization Wizard now is selected and select Done. The License Status screen should automatically launch after a few minutes.
10. If it doesn’t launch automatically, open Launchpad, select IBM (Other) and then select SPSS Statistics Licence Authorization Wizard.
11. On the License Status screen, select Next.
12. Ensure Authorized user licence is selected (make a note of the Lock Code that appears on screen, you may need it later) and select Next.
13. Enter the long authorization code you were given and then select Next.
14. Once the authorization has succeeded, select Next and Finish.
Your download is complete. You may be asked to reboot your computer before using SPSS.
Running multiple versions
It is possible to run multiple versions of SPSS on your computer if you have sufficient disk space. You can install the most recent version and run that alongside any older version. You will need to obtain a renewal activation code for the older version. However, if you do not have any compelling reason to run an older version, we would advise you to run only the most current version.
Help
Use the free Presidion Academic Portal to access useful resources, including tips, video tutorials and sample data sets. To log in you will need to register. Complete the form with your University email address. You will receive an email with a link to verify your account.
Note: When registering, if you select the lecturer user type, you’ll be contacted for further information to verify that you are a lecturer. Lecturers have access to an additional ‘Lecturer tab’ containing teachings resources. Until the verification process is complete you will have student level access.
Contact IT Services with a full description of the problem - include error numbers and screenshots where relevant.

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/mybradford-intranet/documents
SOURCE_DOC: Student Council Tax Info Leaflet.pdf

MyBradford
Council Tax and Full-time Students
If you are a full-time student, you can qualify to be disregarded (not counted) for council tax purposes. Depending on who else lives with you, you may qualify for a discount or not have to pay any council tax at all.
Who is classed as a full-time student?
If you are in higher education, your course will have to be at least one academic or calendar year long and it is a requirement of your course that you normally undertake an average of 21 hours per week of study, tuition or work experience for at least 24 weeks of each academic or calendar year. Please note that is based on the course requirements and not how long you actually spend studying
Can I qualify for a discount or an exemption?
If all the occupants of the property aged 18 or over qualify as either students, severely mentally impaired or are a student’s spouse/dependent from overseas and the terms of their leave to enter or remain in the UK prevent them from either working or claiming public funds (benefits), then you may qualify for an exemption (nothing to pay) for council tax.
If all but one of the occupants aged 18 or over are disregarded (not counted) for council tax purposes, then a discount of 25% can apply.
Properties with two or more occupants who are not disregarded do not qualify for any discount.
More information about discounts and exemptions can be found on our website at www.bradford.gov.uk/counciltax
Applying for a student discount or exemption
You will need a Council Tax Reference number to apply. If you have not yet registered for council tax, the quickest way to do this is visit www.bradford.gov.uk/counciltaxforms and complete the Tell us about a change of address form. To make the process even quicker you should select the paperless billing option on the online form and you will receive your bill by email once the bill is produced. Once you have your bill with the reference number on, you will then be able to complete the student application form.
If you have already received a council tax bill in your name or you are living with someone who has a bill in their name, then you can use the reference number on that bill.
The student application form can be found by either scanning the QR code on this leaflet or by visiting www.bradford.gov.uk/studentdiscount where you will need to complete the online form.
If you have a spouse or dependent living with you and they are on a visa which prevents them from either working or claiming public funds, please upload images of both sides of their Residency Permit card showing the restrictions.
Queries
If you have any further questions or queries about discounts and exemptions for students, please visit www.bradford.gov.uk/studentdiscount or contact our Student Disregards Team on 01274 437715.

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/placements-office/documents
SOURCE_DOC: Bradford%20Wash%20Guide.pdf

Placements Office
Caring for Your New Uniform
Garment Care Advice
For the best laundering results we recommend the following:
- Before wear, wash dark and bright colours separately from whites in cold water or on a cool setting to enhance colour stability.
- To aid colour retention, turn the garment inside out prior to washing. For the best results the garment should be ironed on the reverse side until all moisture is gone to prevent creasing after ironing cool down. Garments should be aired before folding for storage.
- Synthetics and cottons can be tumble dried on a low temperature only, and pressed when slightly damp (Remember – Cotton can shrink if tumble dried to a complete dry state).
- Washer dryers dry at a considerably higher temperature than conventional tumble dryers and therefore the instructions in the manufacturer’s manual must be adhered to. This will avoid damage or shrinkage to the garment.
- Washing powders and liquids containing chlorine or bleach cleaning agents should be avoided to prevent deterioration to the colour or construction of the fabric. It is strongly advised that non-bio-logical washing agents are used as biological agents can aﬀect colour stability and cause running or fading.
Difficult Stain Removal
Blood
Blot with concentrated common starch paste and rinse from the reverse side with mild soapy water.
Ink
Immerse in cold water.
Lipstick
Rub white bread over the area with a ﬁrm gentle motion.
Iodine
Treat with cold water followed by methylated spirit.

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/placements-office/documents
SOURCE_DOC: Guidance Needle Stick and body fluid splash incidents - UofB.pdf

Placements Office
Needle Stick and body fluid splash incidents
The University’s student Occupational Health Service is not equipped to provide emergency support; is not operational 24 hours per day and cannot provide Post Exposure Prophylaxis treatment. The responsibility of the initial support to a student who has sustained a needle stick or body fluid splash incident lies with the NHS via Accident & Emergency (A&E) or host Occupational Health Department.
The University’s’ student Occupational Health Service will support any necessary follow up after NHS risk assessment, post incident blood tests and Post Exposure Prophylaxis, if required.
The following process should be adhered to:
- The student subject to the incident should report this to their manager, e.g. supervisor or ward manager.
- The details of the incident should be recorded along with details of the student/source patient, including contact numbers and email address.
- The person that sustained the injury should be directed to A&E / host NHS Occupational Health without delay for assessment to include initial bloods, which will act as a baseline and saved for future testing of blood borne viruses. This is urgent in case assessment deems it necessary to commence Post Exposure Prophylaxis treatment.
- If the source patient consents, their blood should also be taken for testing.
The University Occupational Health Service can support any required follow-up of the student.
- The student should contact the University’s student Occupational Health Service (telephone 01530 239190) after attending A&E or host NHS Occupational Health. It is helpful for the University’s student Occupational Health Service to be provided with a copy of the incident form and any risk assessments undertaken (this can be faxed to 08450 775513).
- The University’s student Occupational Health Service will then contact the student to review and advise and to collect bloods at 6 weeks, 12 weeks and 24 week bloods as required.
- The person will be informed of the blood test results with support and onward referral if required. The University’s student Occupational Health Service will provide support and signpost the student to other support services, where required.

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/placements-office/documents
SOURCE_DOC: UofBradford Immunity Programme v1-4 April 23.pdf

Placements Office
Occupational Health
Information Leaflet – Vaccines and Blood Tests
Nursing, Occupational Therapy, Physiotherapy & Radiography
The immunity requirements for these courses are as follows:
- Tuberculosis
- Varicella
- Measles and Rubella
- Hepatitis B*
*Immunisation for social workers only for those exposed to unfixed human blood or tissues.
Midwifery, Paramedic & Physician’s Associates
The immunity requirements for these courses is the same as those above, with additional blood tests to test for infection as follows:
- Hepatitis C
- HIV
- Hepatitis B Surface Antigen
Pharmacy
The immunity requirements for Pharmacy students is as follows:
- Measles and Rubella
Information You Should Know
Dignity, respect and confidentiality is of the upmost importance in this process, in this regard please note:
You will not be required to undress but you will need to expose your arm for the blood test/vaccine. It is recommended that you wear clothing which will allow for this procedure.
Should you wish to discuss a matter in private please inform a member of staff at the earliest opportunity or contact Occupational Health in advance of the session.
We use registered nurses and trained phlebotomists who will adhere to relevant guidance, including Higher Educational Occupational Physicians/Practitioners (HEOPS), the Green Book and World Health Organisation (WHO) guidance.
Vaccines
Vaccines are given to provide immunity and to protect you and others whilst you are on placement/training. Vaccination dates are scheduled into your timetable. You must attend these scheduled vaccination sessions so that you are cleared for placement. Failure to do so is likely to result in a delay in commencement of your placement.
Please note: in the event of a vaccine shortage alternative provisions will be put in place.
Blood Tests
Blood tests screen for diseases/immunity as required for your placement/training. The tests include:
- Tuberculosis (test for infection)
- Hepatitis B surface antigen (test for infection)
- HIV (test for infection)
- Hepatitis C (test for infection)
- Hepatitis B surface antibodies (test for immunity following vaccination)
- Varicella (test for immunity)
Your blood test results will be sent directly back to Occupational Health and any further tests or follow- up will be determined and actioned accordingly.
Hepatitis B Vaccine
Hepatitis B is transmitted from blood and bodily fluids.
A course of Hepatitis B consists of three vaccines given over a six-month period with the following intervals: 0 (first attendance), 1 month and 6 months.
Sometimes an accelerated course is given which consists of: 1st, 2nd and 3rd vaccinations each one month apart, followed by a booster at 12 months. Both courses are followed by a blood test conducted after four weeks of completion of the course. This blood test is to check whether you have developed enough antibodies to the vaccine. Occasionally more doses of the vaccine need to be given, as advised by Occupational Health.
You will not be protected against Hepatitis B until you have fully completed the course. It is therefore important that you attend all vaccination appointments.
Varicella
This vaccine protects against varicella (commonly known as chicken pox). An initial immunity check is conducted via a blood test unless you have confirmed evidence of your disease history. If you are not immune, you will be required to have the varicella vaccinations.
A course of 2 vaccinations will be given four weeks apart. It is important to complete the course for full protection.
The varicella vaccine is live and therefore cannot be given to pregnant women as it may harm the foetus. It also cannot be given to people who are immunosuppressed, either due to disease (including HIV) or medication. You may not develop full immunity until six weeks after the second vaccination. You must avoid medications containing salicylate, (e.g. aspirin) for six weeks following vaccination, and females must avoid pregnancy for three months following each vaccination.
Tuberculosis (BCG)
This vaccine protects against Tuberculosis (TB) and is for students not previously been vaccinated. The TB vaccine is live and therefore cannot be given to pregnant women as it may harm the foetus. The TB vaccine cannot be given to people who are immunosuppressed, either due to disease (including HIV) or medication.
You will require a blood test (IGRA). If, based on the blood test results, you require the vaccine it must be administered within 3 months of the blood test. If you have no intention of having the vaccine, please state before the blood test is undertaken.
Measles & Rubella
It is a requirement of all clinical courses to have immunity to measles and rubella. You will therefore need to provide evidence of this to the Occupational Health Department as one of the following: disease history, blood test results to show positive immunity or 2 MMR vaccines (or equivalent individual vaccines).
UK students should check with their General Practitioner (GP) to find out if they have been vaccinated. If you have not been vaccinated these are available through the NHS via your GP.
If you cannot obtain evidence of immunity, you will be required to have 2 MMR vaccines given four weeks apart.
Please note: if you do not know whether you have been vaccinated for MMR, having more than two doses will not cause you any harm.
International students
If you are an international student, you should try to obtain evidence of vaccinations prior to travelling to the UK. Depending on the University course you will be required to have UK laboratory validated blood tests to verify immunity to certain diseases.
If you have any questions, please do not hesitate to contact the Occupationa Health Department on: 01530 239190

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/registry-and-student-admin-intranet/documents

-

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/registry-and-student-admin-intranet/documents
SOURCE_DOC: Assessment%20Types%20-%20Extension%20Permissable.pdf

Registry and Student Administration
Assesments with Extension Permissibility
- Assessment Type Code: AT, Short Name: ATTENDANCE, Full Name: Attendance requirement, Extension Permitted: No
- Assessment Type Code: CLIN, Short Name: CLINICAL, Full Name: Clinical Assessment, Extension Permitted: No
- Assessment Type Code: COM, Short Name: COMPUTERBASED, Full Name: Computer-based assessment, Extension Permitted: No
- Assessment Type Code: COMEXM, Short Name: EXAM WITH COMP, Full Name: Written examination with use/sight of computer, Extension Permitted: No
- Assessment Type Code: CW, Short Name: COURSEWORK, Full Name: Coursework, Extension Permitted: Yes
- Assessment Type Code: CWA, Short Name: CW ARTEFACT, Full Name: Coursework - Artefact, Extension Permitted: Yes
- Assessment Type Code: CWP, Short Name: CW PORTFOLIO, Full Name: Coursework - Portfolio/e-portfolio, Extension Permitted: Yes
- Assessment Type Code: CWPA, Short Name: CW PATCHWORK, Full Name: Coursework - Patchwork Assessment, Extension Permitted: Yes
- Assessment Type Code: CWW, Short Name: CW WRITTEN, Full Name: Coursework - Written, Extension Permitted: Yes
- Assessment Type Code: DIS/PR, Short Name: DISS/PROJ, Full Name: Dissertation or Project Report, Extension Permitted: Yes
- Assessment Type Code: EXAMC, Short Name: EXAM CLOSED BK, Full Name: Examination - Closed Book, Extension Permitted: No
- Assessment Type Code: EXAMO, Short Name: EXAM OPEN, Full Name: Examination - Open Book, Extension Permitted: No
- Assessment Type Code: EXAMP, Short Name: EXAM: PRACTICAL, Full Name: Examination - practical/laboratory, Extension Permitted: No
- Assessment Type Code: EXAMQ, Short Name: EXAM MCQ, Full Name: Examination - MCQ, Extension Permitted: No
- Assessment Type Code: EXAMS, Short Name: EXAM SEEN, Full Name: Examination - Seen Paper, Extension Permitted: No
- Assessment Type Code: EXAMV, Short Name: EXAM VIVA VOCE, Full Name: Examination - oral/viva voce, Extension Permitted: No
- Assessment Type Code: EXCOMP, Short Name: COMPUT-AID EXAM, Full Name: Computerised examination, Extension Permitted: No
- Assessment Type Code: LAB, Short Name: LAB REPORT, Full Name: Laboratory Report, Extension Permitted: Yes
- Assessment Type Code: ONLST, Short Name: STL ONLINE, Full Name: Short-Time Limited Online Examination, Extension Permitted: No
- Assessment Type Code: ONLTL, Short Name: LTL ONLINE, Full Name: Long-Time Limited Online Examination, Extension Permitted: No
- Assessment Type Code: ONMCQ, Short Name: MCQ ONLINE, Full Name: Online MCQ Examination, Extension Permitted: No
- Assessment Type Code: OSCE, Short Name: CLINICAL EXAM, Full Name: Objective Structured Clinical Examination, Extension Permitted: No
- Assessment Type Code: OTHER, Short Name: OTHER, Full Name: Other form of assessment, Extension Permitted: No
- Assessment Type Code: PRES, Short Name: PRESENTATION, Full Name: Presentation, Extension Permitted: No
- Assessment Type Code: SPA, Short Name: SELF/PEER, Full Name: Self and Peer Assessment, Extension Permitted: Yes
- Assessment Type Code: TBL, Short Name: TEAM-BASED ASSE, Full Name: Team-Based Learning Assessment, Extension Permitted: No
- Assessment Type Code: TEST, Short Name: TEST, Full Name: Classroom test, Extension Permitted: No
- Assessment Type Code: UN, Short Name: UNASSESSED, Full Name: Not assessed, Extension Permitted: No

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/registry-and-student-admin-intranet/documents
SOURCE_DOC: Consideration%20of%20Personal%20Circumstances%20Policy.pdf

Registry and Student Administration
Policy: Consideration of Personal Circumstances
1. Introduction and Aims
1.1 Summative assessment is a key part of a student’s academic journey, enabling them to demonstrate the intended learning outcomes of their modules and / or programmes of study. Teaching, learning and support activities, and corresponding assessment deadlines, are structured to ensure students can complete assessments, progress and graduate within the intended timeframes for their programme. Students are expected to engage with their studies and manage their time appropriately, to complete their assessments at the required level and within the deadlines set.
1.2 nWhile it is important that students are able to manage minor illness and / or difficult life events at the same time as pursuing their programme of study (just as would be expected in the workplace), the University does recognise that some students may face genuine challenges beyond their control that impact their ability to meet deadlines and / or complete assessments.
1.3 This Consideration of Personal Circumstances policy aims to provide a framework for considering such scenarios, and for implementing appropriate measures to support students to complete their assessments and continue their course of study.
1.4 The policy aims to ensure that requests for assessment deadline extensions and applications for extenuating circumstances across the University are considered and enacted fairly and consistently, and that all parties are clear on their roles and responsibilities as part of these processes.
1.5 The University strives to ensure our policies and procedures are free from bias or the perception of bias. To address this, wherever possible decision maker(s) will not be appointed who:
- Were directly involved in the assessment that is the subject of the extenuating circumstances claim.
- Have previously investigated or reached decisions on complaints or appeals from the individual student, or disciplinary or fitness to practise matters involving the student.
- Have previously been the subject of a formal complaint from the student.
- Have a close personal connection to the student.
- nHave a personal interest in the outcome of any decision being made.
2. Purpose and Scope
2.1 This policy applies to all students participating in taught programmes and / or modules at the University of Bradford, regardless of qualification level or subject discipline.
2.2 For the purposes of this policy, an ‘Extension’ means a fixed and time-bound extension to a coursework (or related) submission deadline. It does not include requests for additional time in examination (or related) assessments (e.g. timed practical assessments).
2.3 For the purposes of this policy, ‘Extenuating Circumstances’ means a set of rare, severe and / or exceptional circumstances that the student is facing which means they are unable to participate in a particular assessment.
2.4 The basic principle of this policy is that if a student attends an examination or submits a piece of coursework, by the initial or extended deadline, they are deeming themselves to be fit and well enough to participate in the assessment process. This is commonly referred to as a ‘Fit to Sit / Submit’ approach.
2.5 The Consideration of Personal Circumstances policy and process is not intended to manage the consideration and implementation of reasonable adjustments due to known and ongoing conditions. Learner Support Profiles and associated reasonable adjustments are considered and managed through the Disability Advice Service.
2.6 For postgraduate research students, requests for extensions and / or extenuating circumstances should be discussed between a student and their supervisory team, according to PGR Progression Regulations and Process.
3. Extensions
3.1 At the beginning of each module, Module Leaders will set assessment deadlines and these will be communicated to students through module induction information, normally through the relevant module space on the University’s Virtual Learning Environment, Canvas.
3.2 If a student feels they need an extension for one or more of their assessment deadlines, they are able to submit a request for a standard 7-day deadline extension.
3.3 Students should refer to the Student Guide to Consideration of Personal Circumstances to ensure the extension process is the most appropriate avenue to resolving their assessment submission issues.
3.4 In exceptional circumstances students may be permitted an extension beyond the standard 7-days. Students should discuss and gain approval for this from their module leader.
3.5 While there is no formal limit to the number of extensions a student can request during their programme of study, students who request multiple extensions in a semester may be contacted by a member of Faculty staff to ensure that any ongoing issues relating to timely submission of assessments are being managed and supported.
3.6 Students cannot apply for an extension for a formal examination, which is held under exam conditions.
Eligible Assessments
3.7 Extension requests are possible for the majority of coursework assessments. However, there may be instances where extensions are not possible for certain assignments. This may be, for example, when a deadline is set by, or in agreement with, an external assessor / organisation. Where extension requests are not permitted for certain coursework assessments, this will be communicated to students in module information, assessment briefs and, where applicable, also on submission ‘boxes’.
3.8 For eligible assessment components, only one extension request of 7-days is permitted per student.
Submitting an Extension Request
3.9 Students are encouraged to speak to their personal academic tutor, module leader, or supervisor if they are experiencing difficulties.
3.10 Students can ask for a deadline extension via the online Extension Request form.
3.11 Students will be asked to provide the following information when submitting a request for a deadline extension:
- Module code and title.
- Module tutor.
- Assessment component.
- Original deadline date.
- Confirmation that assessment component is eligible for an extension.
- Category of circumstances.
- A brief reason why an extension is being requested.
3.12 Students are able to upload supporting evidence to their extension request, but this is not a requirement for approval.
Criteria for approving an Extension Request
3.13 Extension requests will be reviewed and triaged by a member of the Programme Administration team daily. Extension requests will be approved and actioned by this team within 2 working days if the following criteria are met:
- The module assessment detailed in the request is an ‘eligible assessment’, as per the definition above.
- The extension has been requested, through the online form, at the latest by 12.00 noon on the date of the original deadline.
3.14 The Programme Administration team may call upon the module / programme team and / or other support services in relation to extension requests where there are immediate intervention needs, questions around assessment eligibility for extensions, and / or complicating factors in actioning an extension (e.g. an extension deadline falls on a bank holiday).
If an Extension is approved
3.15 Upon approval of an extension request, the student will be notified of this outcome and will receive confirmation of their extended submission deadline.
3.16 Depending on the nature of the circumstances detailed in the extension request form, students may also be signposted to support resources and / or referred directly to University support services.
If an Extension is not approved
3.17 If an extension request does not meet the criteria for approval, the student will be notified of this outcome and will receive advice as to their options for the assessment in question. This might include, for example, being signposted to the Extenuating Circumstances process.
3.18 Depending on the nature of the circumstances detailed in the extension request form, even if the extension is not approved, students may still be signposted to support resources and / or referred to University support services.
3.19 Students cannot appeal an extension decision.
4. Extenuating Circumstances
4.1 As with extension requests, students should refer to the Student Guide to Consideration of Personal Circumstances to ensure the extenuating circumstances process is the most appropriate avenue to resolving their assessment completion issues.
4.2 In line with the ‘Fit to Sit / Submit’ approach of this policy, Extenuating Circumstances should only be requested if the assessment in question has not been:
- Attended - e.g. an exam
- Submitted - e.g. coursework
- Completed - e.g. if a student falls ill during an exam and is unable to continue in the moment.
4.3 Extenuating circumstances requests should not be submitted for instances where a student has completed / submitted an assessment but believes their performance has been impaired. The only exception to this may be in a situation whereby a student would have been unable to determine that they were not ‘fit to sit / submit’ in the moment, for example due to an acute mental health issue at the time of the assessment.
4.4 While there is no formal limit to the number of applications for extenuating circumstances a student can request during their programme of study, students who submit multiple applications in a single academic year may be contacted to ensure that any ongoing issues relating to their ability to participate in assessments and continue on their programme of study are being managed and supported.
Eligible Assessments
4.5 Applications for extenuating circumstances are possible for all assessments on taught modules / programmes. However, there may be additional factors to consider when submitting extenuating circumstances requests for certain assignments / modules / programmes. This may be, for example, when assignments are set by, or in agreement with, an external assessor / organisation. Where there are specific factors to note in relation to extenuating circumstances requests for a particular assessment / module / programme, this will be communicated to students in programme / module information and, where applicable, in individual assessment briefs.
Submitting an Extenuating Circumstances request
4.6 Students can submit requests for extenuating circumstances via an online form on e:Vision up to 7 days following their assessment date / deadline.
Students will be asked to provide the following information when submitting an extenuating circumstances request:
Selected from a drop-down menu:
- Module code and title.
- Assessment component and completion / submission date.
- Category of circumstances.
Plus:
- Description of the circumstances which led to being unable to attend / submit / complete the assessment in question.
- Evidence to support the description of the circumstances.
4.7 A request will be considered late, if students submit their request later than 7 days following their assessment date / deadline.
4.8 Students who submit a late request will need to provide additional evidence to support why the request could not have been submitted on time.
Criteria for approving extenuating circumstances requests
4.9 All extenuating circumstances requests will be reviewed and triaged by a Senior Programme Administrator. Extenuating circumstances requests will be approved and actioned if the description of circumstances and any supporting evidence meet the following criteria:
- Have been received via the appropriate form on e:Vision within 7 days of the assessment date / deadline.
- Relate to a time period relevant to the assessment submission / completion deadline – e.g. between the beginning of the module in question and the assessment deadline.
- Describe circumstances that were unforeseen and / or unavoidable – i.e. the student could not have done anything to reasonably predict or prevent the circumstances from impacting their ability to complete assessment(s).
- Describe circumstances that are exceptional – i.e. the circumstances are over and above what would be classed as ‘typical’ challenges for the student and can reasonably be believed to have prevented them from completing their assessment(s).
4.10 Examples of circumstances which would typically align with the criteria of unforeseen, unavoidable and exceptional, include (but are not limited to):
- Medical issues, such as sudden, serious and / or worsening physical or mental health conditions.
- Family emergencies, such as serious illness, accidents, or deaths involving friends or family members.
- Legal obligations, such as being called for jury duty or needing to appear in court.
- Unexpected disruption to caring arrangements, such as closure of child’s school / nursery, illness of childcare provider, or last-minute change to home care schedule.
- Unexpected travel disruptions, such as flight cancellations, severe traffic accidents, or public transportation breakdowns.
- Unavoidable infrastructure disruptions, such as data breaches / corruption or destruction of property due to natural disasters (floods, storms etc.).
4.11 Examples of circumstances which would typically not fit the criteria of unforeseen, unavoidable and exceptional, include:
- Minor illnesses which could be treated, for example, with non-prescription medication (e.g. headache, cold)
- Known and stable physical or mental health conditions.
- Physical or mental health conditions already accommodated via reasonable adjustments.
- Predictable events, such as routine medical appointments or known work commitments.
- Procrastination or poor time management.
- Stress or pressure resulting from personal choices, such as engaging in extracurricular activities that impact academic commitments.
- Non-emergency personal events, such as weddings, holidays or religious celebrations.
- Common technical issues, such as temporary loss of internet connection / power or loss of data / files due to not saving / backing-up regularly.
4.12 In instances where it is unclear if the approval criteria have been met, where the circumstances described are particularly complex and / or where the circumstances described necessitate immediate support intervention, the Senior Programme Administrator will escalate to the Head of Programme Administration, to support the decision-making process and liaise with appropriate Faculty staff and support services, as necessary.
Description of circumstances
4.13 As part of their extenuating circumstances request, students will be asked to put their circumstances into one or more broad categories:
- Bereavement and / or Anticipatory Grief
- Recent / Unexpected Health Issues
- Known Health Issues
- Caring Responsibilities
- Major Personal Incident / Difficulties
- Infrastructure Failure
- Public / Civic Duties
- Professional Commitments
- Academic Issues
4.14 These categories are used solely for the purpose of monitoring extenuating circumstances requests across the University and ensuring resources and services for students are meeting ongoing needs. The category of circumstances does not have a bearing on whether a request is approved or denied.
4.15 In addition to selecting the broad category of their circumstances, students are asked to provide a short narrative explaining why they were unable to submit / complete their assessment. This narrative, along with supporting evidence, is used to assess whether a request for extenuating circumstance meets the criteria for approval.
Supporting evidence
4.16 Unlike extension requests, there is an expectation that requests for extenuating circumstances are accompanied by some form of supporting evidence. This aims to ensure not only that requests for extenuation are genuine, but also to provide additional information that might help signpost students to appropriate resources.
4.17 Evidence may vary depending on the nature of the circumstances in question, but may include:
- A medical certificate, doctor's note, or relevant medical records that detail the timing and nature of the illness or medical emergency. For mental health issues, a counsellor's note or therapist's letter may be appropriate.
- Official documents relating to family emergencies such as a death certificate, hospital records, or letters from a third party (e.g. nurse / carer).
- Legal documentation, such as copies of court summons, legal notices or jury duty letters.
- For transportation issues, airline notices, traffic reports or email notifications of last-minute cancellations.
- Infrastructure-related documentation, such as IT support tickets, emails from service providers, time-stamped photos of property damage, insurance documentation.
- In cases of disruption to caring arrangements, official notices from the educational / care institution, time-stamped communication from intended caregiver.
- Statements from members of University staff who have been involved in supporting the student through ongoing challenges.
4.18 Evidence that would typically not be accepted includes:
- Self-written statements without corroboration.
- Late or retroactive documentation that does not align with either the timing of the assessment or the narrative of the circumstances.
- Generic, vague or ‘forgeable’ documentation, such as communications, photos, screenshots, records without personalised recipient, sender / signatory or time / date stamps.
- Photographs of a particularly sensitive and / or potentially distressing nature.
- Official documentation in a language other than English (unless accompanied by a notarised translation).
4.19 Students founds to have provided fraudulent evidence or made claims that are found to be untrue, may be subject to further action under the Student Disciplinary Procedure. In these cases, the extenuating circumstances decision will be placed on hold until the disciplinary case has concluded and may result in the request being rejected.
If case for Extenuating Circumstances is accepted
4.20 If a student’s case for extenuating circumstances is accepted, their module record will be updated to reflect this, and the outcome will be taken to an Assessment Committee to discuss and agree an appropriate course of action in relation to the assessment component(s) in question.
4.21 A typical outcome for an accepted extenuating circumstances case is to allow the student to submit / complete the assessment component at the next available opportunity at the same attempt status. Assessment Committee decisions may vary, however, depending on contextual factors relating to the student, and / or specific module or programme regulations.
4.22 Depending on the nature of the circumstances detailed in the extenuating circumstances request, students may also be signposted to support resources and / or referred directly to University support services.
If case for Extenuating Circumstances is not accepted
4.23 If a student’s case for extenuating circumstances is not accepted, the student will be notified of this outcome and will be signposted to support resources and / or referred to University support services, as appropriate.
4.24 The student’s module outcome will be taken to an Assessment Committee to discuss and agree an appropriate course of action in relation to the assessment component(s) in question. For instances where non-attendance or non-submission of an assessment component has led to failure of a module, the student would normally be invited to undertake reassessment for a capped mark at the next attempt status, where eligible.
4.25 Further details regarding Assessment Committee decision-making can be found in the University’s Assessment Regulations.
Appeals
4.26 Decisions relating to extenuating circumstances requests cannot be appealed against directly. However, students remain able to appeal against Board of Examiners’ decisions as part of the University’s standard Appeals Regulations. As part of this process, students may wish to make reference to their extenuating circumstances case.
5. Roles and Responsibilities
5.1 The Consideration of Personal Circumstances policy is intended to provide a clear framework for making decisions relating to missed assessment activities. It aims to facilitate consistent and timely decision-making, allow for appropriate consideration in relation to complex cases and ensure that, regardless of process or outcome, students are signposted or referred to appropriate support.
5.2 All participants in the consideration of personal circumstances processes are expected to act in a supportive and respectful manner, in line with staff and student contracts and codes of conduct.
5.3 All participants in the processes are also expected to adhere to any legal, regulatory and policy requirements with regards to confidentiality and data protection.
Students
5.4Students are expected to take responsibility for their own learning and assessment activities and to read available guidance to ensure they are accessing the most appropriate avenue to resolving any assessment submission issues they may be facing.
5.5 When making extension or extenuating circumstances requests, students are expected follow the procedures outlined in this policy, including meeting request deadlines, clearly outlining reasons for requests and, where required, ensuring supporting evidence is appropriate and directly relevant to the description of their circumstances.
5.6 Students are also asked to consider, acknowledge and take responsibility for the potential implications on their ability to progress through their programme of study as planned due to requesting extensions and / or not completing / submitting assessments.
Staff – Programme and Module Teams
5.7 Programme and module teams are expected to set and communicate assessment deadlines to students as early as possible in the academic year, at least at the beginning of each new module. This assessment information should be clear, consistent and in an accessible format and should highlight any assessment components that are ineligible for extensions / certain extenuating circumstances outcomes.
5.8 Programme and module teams should also liaise with the Programme Administration Team to set indicative extension deadlines for each eligible assessment and to monitor the number of extension and extenuating circumstances on an ongoing basis to mitigate the impact on assessment and marking load / schedules.
5.9 Programme and module teams are also expected to maintain open and supportive communication with students facing assessment submission issues and / or other challenging circumstances, ensuring that students are signposted or referred to appropriate sources of advice, guidance and support.
Staff – Programme Administration Team
5.10 The Programme Administration team is responsible for implementing and managing the day-to-day operations of the Consideration of Personal Circumstances policy and processes. This includes liaising with programme / module teams regarding assessment dates, reviewing and agreeing request outcomes, updating central student records with agreed outcomes, escalating / referring severe and / or complex cases and communicating with students about the status of their extension or extenuating circumstances request.
5.11 The Programme Administration team is expected to maintain accurate records of all extension and extenuating circumstances requests and to report on cases, both for the purposes of programme / module team operational planning as well as for institutional oversight / ongoing policy review.
University of Bradford Union of Students (UBU)
5.12 UBU is expected to play a key role in disseminating information about the Consideration of Personal Circumstances policy to students, ensuring that they are aware of their rights, roles and responsibilities, as well as any support available for students.
5.13 The UBU Advice Centre is expected to help students navigate this policy and related procedures, to ensure students are accessing the most appropriate avenue to resolving any assessment submission issues they may be facing.
5.14 UBU colleagues are also expected to maintain open and supportive communication with students and members of UoB staff, as part of this process, to ensure that students are signposted or referred to appropriate sources of advice, guidance and support in a joined up and timely manner.
5.15 UBU also plays an important role in providing ongoing feedback to the University about students’ experiences with the extension and extenuating circumstances process, to inform policy review and continuous improvement activities.
6. nAccessibility and Inclusivity
6.1 The Equality Act 2010 places a legal obligation on the University to make reasonable adjustments to its services and meet the requirements of staff with a disability and / or other specific needs.
6.2 The intention of the Consideration of Personal Circumstances policy is to support all students facing assessment submission issues, or broader challenging circumstances, regardless of characteristics or context.
6.3 Where a student feels they may require additional support to navigate and / or participate in the processes outlined in this policy, they should contact either their module tutor or the UBU Advice Centre in the first instance. Measures to support participation may include, for example, support to navigate systems, complete forms or upload evidence.
6.4 Where a member of staff feels they may require additional support to navigate and / or participate in the processes outlined in this policy, they should contact their line manager in the first instance. Measures to support participation may include, for example, distribution of individual roles and responsibilities across a module team.
7. Oversight, Implementation and Support
7.1 This policy and its implementation are owned and overseen by the University of Bradford’s Learning and Teaching Committee.
7.2 Registry and Student Administration (RSA) are responsible for the operation of the policy and corresponding processes, as well as the ongoing schedule of policy / process review and continuous improvement.
The policy and any accompanying appendices shall be reviewed annually.

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/registry-and-student-admin-intranet/documents
SOURCE_DOC: Extensions%20Scenario%20Framework.pdf

Registry and Student Administration
Extensions: Scenarios Framework
NB: The below is not an exhaustive list and will be reviewed and expanded on continually as new categories emerge. Examples of each category are available in the guidance below. If there are any queries on a category, please contact your Programme Admin Coordinator in the first instance.
- Category: General Conditions, Normally Accepted: Circumstances that are unforeseen, unavoidable, exceptional, submitted within the allocated timeframe for claims., Normally Not Accepted: Circumstances that are foreseeable or preventable, are considered ‘everyday’ or ‘typical’ challenges relating to study and/or assessment preparation, do not relate to the timing of the assessment and/or wider module, are submitted outside the allocated timeframe for claims.
- Category: Bereavement and/or Anticipatory Grief, Normally Accepted: Death of friend or family member, terminal diagnosis of friend or family member., Normally Not Accepted: Anniversary of death/illness of friend or family member, death or terminal illness of someone not directly connected to the student (e.g. community member, celebrity).
- Category: Recent/Unexpected Health Issues, Normally Accepted: Recent injury, or new physical/mental health condition, side effects of treatment for physical/mental health condition, unexpected new/changed health issues which left insufficient time to put reasonable adjustments in place, health complications and/or illness due to pregnancy, gender reassignment, or menopausal treatment., Normally Not Accepted: Minor illnesses/conditions/injuries treatable with non-prescription medications/home remedies, health issues caused by personal choices (e.g. hangover, insufficient sleep).
- Category: Known Health Issues, Normally Accepted: Worsening, fluctuating and/or acute episode of a known disability or condition, significant side effects from new treatment regime, reasonable adjustments not put in place as intended, LSP offers flexibility with deadlines., Normally Not Accepted: Ongoing managed health conditions unchanged for more than a year, conditions with reasonable adjustments not specifying flexibility with deadlines.
- Category: Caring Responsibilities, Normally Accepted: New/additional caring responsibilities due to unexpected personal events, unforeseen breakdown of childcare arrangements., Normally Not Accepted: Minor illnesses/injuries of dependents manageable at home, ongoing stable caring responsibilities, poor planning for known responsibilities.
- Category: Major Personal Incident/Difficulties, Normally Accepted: Recent serious financial/housing issues, serious domestic/family issues, victim of or witness to serious crime, theft/destruction of essential property, experience of catastrophic event (terrorist attack, war, natural disaster)., Normally Not Accepted: General financial/accommodation worries, general family problems, petty crimes or civil offences, incidents with little impact on study.
- Category: Infrastructure Failure, Normally Accepted: Unforeseen extended power outage, long-term unavailability of UoB specialist facilities/equipment/software, extreme weather/travel disruption impacting attendance., Normally Not Accepted: Poor planning allowing no margin for minor disruptions like outages or delays.
- Category: Public/Civic Duties, Normally Accepted: Mandatory attendance at court/tribunal as juror, witness, defendant, or official capacity support., Normally Not Accepted: Other public/civic duties manageable around study (e.g. voting, attending meetings).
- Category: Professional Commitments, Normally Accepted: Unforeseen changes in work commitments for critical services (NHS, police, armed forces), participation in significant international events (Olympics)., Normally Not Accepted: Ongoing predictable work commitments, participation in personal/amateur activities.
- Category: Academic, Normally Accepted: Serious uncontrollable problems during preparation (e.g. ethical approval delays, supervisor absence, wrong assessment info)., Normally Not Accepted: Typical exam stress/challenges, poor time management, short-term equipment failure, failure to back up documents, lack of awareness of dates.

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/registry-and-student-admin-intranet/documents
SOURCE_DOC: Extenuating%20Circumstances%20-%20Scenario%20and%20Evidence%20Framework.pdf

Registry and Student Administration
Extenuating Circumstances: Scenarios and Evidence Framework
NB: The below is not an exhaustive list and will be reviewed and expanded upon on a continual basis as new categories emerge. Examples of each category are available in the guidance below. If there are any queries on a category or evidence submitted, please contact your Programme Admin Coordinator in the first instance.
Photograps as evidence: With the exception of photographs of dated documentation, it is unlikely that photographs would be acceptable as evidence due to difficulty in date/person verification. In addition, you should avoid submitting photographs of a sensitive or distressing nature.
You should instead provide documentation as shown in the list below. If you are struggling to provide documentation you should discuss your situation with your PAT, or the University’s Wellbeing Services, who may be able to provide a supporting statement or letter.
- Category: General Conditions, Normally Accepted: Circumstances that are unforeseen, unavoidable, exceptional, submitted within the allocated timeframe for claims., Evidence: Clearly linked to the student, aligned to claim narrative and assessment dates., Normally Not Accepted: Circumstances that are foreseeable, preventable, everyday study challenges, unrelated to assessment timing, or submitted late without supporting evidence.
- Category: Bereavement and/or Anticipatory Grief, Normally Accepted: Death of friend or family member, terminal diagnosis of friend or family member., Evidence: Death certificate, funeral details, death announcement, medical records/letter regarding diagnosis, stream of communications., Normally Not Accepted: Anniversary of death/illness, or death/illness of someone not directly connected (e.g. celebrity).
- Category: Recent/Unexpected Health Issues, Normally Accepted: Recent serious injury or new health condition, serious treatment side effects, pregnancy or gender reassignment complications, unexpected isolation needs., Evidence: Doctor’s letter, healthcare professional support letters, hospital records, imaging/tests, treatment schedules, reasonable adjustment communications., Normally Not Accepted: Minor illnesses manageable at home, hangovers, fatigue due to insufficient sleep.
- Category: Known Health Issues, Normally Accepted: Acute episodes of known conditions, significant side effects from new treatments, failure to implement reasonable adjustments., Evidence: Doctor’s letter, healthcare professional support letters, medical records, treatment changes, LSP showing prone-to-fluctuation condition, proof of missed adjustments., Normally Not Accepted: Ongoing unchanged conditions or those with established reasonable adjustments.
- Category: Caring Responsibilities, Normally Accepted: New or additional caring responsibilities due to serious health conditions or personal events, sudden childcare breakdown., Evidence: Medical documents for cared person, Social Services correspondence, court guardianship documentation, communications confirming changes., Normally Not Accepted: Minor illnesses in cared individuals, ongoing responsibilities, or poor planning for holidays.
- Category: Major Personal Incident/Difficulties, Normally Accepted: Serious unexpected financial/housing issues, serious domestic problems, victim of serious crime, major catastrophic events., Evidence: Bank/finance letters, accommodation provider communication, police reports, crime number, medical letters, Social Services or charities documentation., Normally Not Accepted: General financial or family issues, petty crimes, or incidents with little study impact.
- Category: Infrastructure Failure, Normally Accepted: Unforeseen extended outages, specialist facility failures, extreme weather disrupting assessment., Evidence: Service provider notifications, UoB IT responses, staff acknowledgement emails, travel advisories., Normally Not Accepted: Poor time planning for common disruptions.
- Category: Public/Civic Duties, Normally Accepted: Mandatory court/tribunal attendance or acting in official capacity (juror, witness, representative)., Evidence: Jury summons, court summons, role confirmation correspondence., Normally Not Accepted: Duties manageable around study like voting or attending meetings.
- Category: Professional Commitments, Normally Accepted: Critical service work emergencies, professional participation in international events., Evidence: Employer shift change letters, government emergency requirement communication, contracts showing event participation and schedules., Normally Not Accepted: Expected/planned work commitments or amateur activities.
- Category: Academic, Normally Accepted: Supervisor absence, major errors in assessment information, equipment failure outside student's control., Evidence: Staff acknowledgement, correspondence showing supervision gap, wrong information evidence., Normally Not Accepted: Normal assessment worries, poor time management, minor IT issues, failure to backup, or missing deadlines due to ignorance.
- Category: Fit to Sit/Submit, Normally Accepted: Sudden physical or mental health crises during an assessment despite initial fitness declaration., Evidence: Incident reports from University teams, doctor letters, psychiatric support letters, hospital records., Normally Not Accepted: No evidence of compromised fitness at time of sitting or submission.

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/registry-and-student-admin-intranet/documents
SOURCE_DOC: FAQs%20Extensions.pdf

Registry and Student Administration
Extensions - FAQs
What is an extension request?
During your time studying you may experience personal difficulties that are unexpected and outside of your control. This may impact your ability to complete your coursework. You might have an illness or accident, a bereavement, or something else unexpected that impacts you.
An extension request is the process you can follow to ask the University to extend your deadline for 7 days, to allow additional time to submit your work, due to the personal difficulties you have experienced.
Normally an extension will be approved if you have experienced something which is unforeseen, short-term and is having a significant impact on your ability to study or to undertake an assessment within the current deadline. For example, a short-term illness or short-term personal difficulties.
It would be unlikely for an extension request to be approved if you are asking for extra time in relation to something that was likely to be under your control, such as going on holiday, attending events or not organising yourself to complete your work on time.
Please see our Extensions: Scenario Framework for examples of the types of personal circumstances which are normally or not normally accepted.
How and when can I apply for an extension?
As soon as an issue arises, let your Module Tutor, Personal Academic Tutor or Supervisor know. They will be able to determine how best to support you.
If applying for an extension is the best option for you, you can complete the online Extension Request Form.
You should apply for an extension by 12.00 noon, at the latest, on the date of your deadline.
For each piece of coursework, you can only apply for one deadline extension.
Will my extension request be kept confidential?
The University understands that you may share some very personal details with us when you apply for an extension. We will always hold that information securely and only use it to consider and respond to your request, unless we believe you are in extreme risk of harm to yourself or someone else and we would always make every effort to discuss this with you first.
What if I submit my request for an extension late?
If you submit your extension request late, it is very likely that your request will not be approved. If you fail to submit your work, you may be able to apply for extenuating circumstances. More information about extenuating circumstances can be found on our SharePoint page – Student Guide to Consideration o Personal Circumstances.
What evidence can I provide to support my request for an extension?
You can provide evidence with your extension request, but this is not a requirement for approval.
When will I receive a decision about my extension request?
You will normally receive a decision on your extension request within 7 days.
What assignments can I request an extension for?
Extensions are available for most of your coursework assessments.
You cannot apply for an extension for an exam or after the coursework date / deadline has already passed.
Some classroom-based assessments, such as quizzes, lab tests, live presentations, oral / viva voce examinations might not be eligible.
Can I apply for an extension to a group assessment?
Check with your Module Leader first to see if the group assessment allows extensions. If the assessment qualifies, the group member who is experiencing difficulties should apply first. Once an extension is approved, the rest of the group can also apply. Each team member must apply for an extension separately before the original extension deadline. The application should contain the following information:
- That the extension request is for a group assessment.
- State who the student is who is experiencing difficulties.
- When other group members are applying for the extension, they should name the student who qualifies for the extension.
Where do I submit my work if my extension request is approved?
There will be a late / extension submission area on the relevant Canvas page, which is where you will need to submit your work. You will be granted access to this shortly after an extension is approved.
Where can I find further information or gain additional support?
If you feel you may require additional support to navigate and / or participate in the processes outlined in this guidance, you should contact either your module tutor, your PAT, your supervisor or the UBU Advice Centre.
The UBU Advice Centre offer independent and free advice to students. They have trained advisors who can support you to access the most appropriate avenue to resolve any issues you are experiencing which are impacting your ability to complete your assessments.
More information can be found on our SharePoint page – Consideration of Personal Circumstances.
You can also take a look at our Extensions: Scenario Framework and our Consideration of Personal Circumstances Student Process Flowchart.

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/registry-and-student-admin-intranet/documents
SOURCE_DOC: FAQs%20Extenuating%20Circumstances.pdf

Registry and Student Administration
Extenuating Circumstances - FAQs
What are extenuating circumstances?
During your time studying you may experience personal difficulties that are unexpected and outside of your control. This may impact your ability to attend or prepare for an exam or complete and submit your coursework, or you may fall ill during an exam. You might have an illness or accident, a bereavement, or something else unexpected that impacts you.
Extenuating circumstances is the process you can follow to ask the University to take your personal difficulties into consideration. You can normally only apply for extenuating circumstances if you fail to sit your exam or submit your coursework.
Normally the following issues will be considered as extenuating circumstances:
- Medical issues, such as sudden, serious and / or worsening physical or mental health conditions.
- Family emergencies, such as serious illness, accidents, or deaths involving friends or family members.
- Legal obligations, such as being called for jury duty or needing to appear in court.
- Unexpected disruption to caring arrangements, such as closure of child’s school / nursery, illness of childcare provider, or last-minute change to home care schedule.
- Unexpected travel disruptions, such as flight cancellations, severe traffic accidents, or public transportation breakdowns.
- Unavoidable infrastructure disruptions, such as data breaches / corruption or destruction of property due to natural disasters (floods, storms etc.).
Please see our Extenuating Circumstances Scenario and Evidence Framework for examples of the types of personal circumstances which are normally accepted.
What is not considered as extenuating circumstances?
Normally the following issues will not be considered as extenuating circumstances:
- Minor illnesses which could be treated, for example, with non-prescription medication (e.g.headache, cold).
- Known and stable physical or mental health conditions.
- Physical or mental health conditions already accommodated through reasonable adjustments.
- Predictable events, such as routine medical appointments or known work commitments.
- Procrastination or poor time management.
- Stress or pressure resulting from personal choices, such as engaging in extracurricular activities that impact academic commitments.
- Non-emergency personal events, such as weddings, holidays or religious celebrations.
- Common technical issues, such as temporary loss of internet connection / power or loss of data /files due to not saving / backing-up regularly.
If your circumstances have had (or are likely to have) a longer-term impact, then the extenuating circumstances process may not be right for you. It may be necessary to consider additional actions to support your learning, for example referring you to Disability Services or allowing you to take some time away from your studies.
Please see our Extenuating Circumstances Scenario and Evidence Framework for examples of the types of personal circumstances which are not normally accepted.
What is fit to sit and fit to submit?
This means if you take your exam, submit your coursework or undertake any assessment activity you are declaring yourself well enough to do so. This means that if you sit your exam or submit your coursework it is unlikely that your extenuating circumstances request would be approved.
What if I sit my exam or submit my coursework, but realise later that I had significant personal difficulties or illness?
The University understands that sometimes you may be unable to determine that you were not ‘fit to sit / submit’ in the moment, for example due to an acute mental health issue at the time of the assessment or you were taken ill partway through an exam. In these cases, you may be able to withdraw your ‘fit to sit / submit’ declaration and submit a request for extenuating circumstances. You should provide evidence to support that you were unwell, that your judgment was impaired, and you were unable to make a rational decision about whether you were well enough to sit.
How can applying for extenuating circumstances help me?
Extenuating circumstances should really be your last resort, and when other options have been considered first. It is important that you tell someone at the University as soon as you can about any such issues so you can get the advice and support you need. As soon as an issue arises, let your Module Tutor, Personal Academic Tutor or Supervisor know. They will then determine how best to support you.
If you have exhausted all other options and you have not been able to sit your exam or submit your coursework, you should apply for extenuating circumstances.
Will my extenuating circumstances request be kept confidential?
The University understands that you may share some very personal details with us when you apply for extenuating circumstances. We will always hold that information securely and only use it to consider and respond to your request, unless we believe you are in extreme risk of harm to yourself or someone else and we would always make every effort to discuss this with you first.
When you complete your extenuating circumstances form, you will be asked whether you want your PAT to provide additional comments. If you agree to this, details about your extenuating circumstances, including any evidence you have attached, will be shared with your PAT as listed on e:Vision.
How and when can I apply for extenuating circumstances?
If you meet the criteria and want to apply, you can submit a request through our online form on e:Vision up to 7 days following your assessment date / deadline.
We would normally expect you to submit your extenuating circumstances request after the deadline of your assessment and when you have not sat your exam or submitted your coursework. If you know that you are unable to sit your exam or submit your work before the assessment date / deadline, you can submit an extenuating circumstances request before the deadline. But you should not apply any earlier than 7 days before the assessment date / deadline.
The University will normally consider your request after the assessment date / deadline so that we can consider your application on actual fact rather than speculation on how your circumstances may have impacted you.
What if I submit my request for extenuating circumstances late?
Extenuating circumstances requests which are submitted more than 7 days following your assessment date / deadline will be considered as being late.
If you submit a late request, you will need to provide additional evidence to support why the request could not have been submitted on time.
What evidence can I provide to support my request for extenuating circumstances?
You are expected to provide evidence in support of your extenuating circumstances request. This aims to ensure not only that requests for extenuation are genuine, but also to provide additional information that might help signpost students to appropriate resources. You can upload your supporting evidence as part of the online form.
Evidence may vary depending on the nature of the circumstances in question, but may include:
- A medical certificate, doctor's note, or relevant medical records that detail the timing and nature of the illness or medical emergency. For mental health issues, a counsellor's note or therapist's letter may be appropriate.
- Official documents relating to family emergencies such as a death certificate, hospital records, or letters from a third party (e.g. nurse/carer).
- Legal documentation, such as copies of court summons, legal notices or jury duty letters.
- For transportation issues, airline notices, traffic reports or email notifications of last-minute cancellation.
- Infrastructure-related documentation, such as IT support tickets, emails from service providers, time-stamped photos of property damage, insurance documentation.
- In cases of disruption to caring arrangements, official notices from the educational / care institution, time-stamped communication from intended caregiver.
- Statements from members of University staff who have been involved in supporting the student through ongoing challenges.
Evidence that would typically not be accepted includes:
- Self-written statements without corroboration.
- Late or retroactive documentation that does not align with either the timing of the assessment or the narrative of the circumstances.
G- eneric, vague or ‘forgeable’ documentation, such as communications, photos, screenshots, records without personalised recipient, sender / signatory or time / date stamps.
- Photographs of a particularly sensitive and / or potentially distressing nature.
- Official documentation in a language other than English (unless accompanied by a notarised translation).
Please see our Extenuating Circumstances Scenario and Evidence Framework for examples of the types of evidence which is normally accepted.
When will I receive a decision about my extenuating circumstances request?
You will normally receive a decision on your extenuating circumstances request within 14 days of all information being received (including all evidence and any comments from your PAT, if you have requested these).
Where can I find further information or gain additional support?
If you feel you may require additional support to navigate and / or participate in the processes outlined in this guidance, you should contact either your module tutor, your PAT, your supervisor or the UBU Advice Centre.
The UBU Advice Centre offer independent and free advice to students. They have trained advisors who can support you to access the most appropriate avenue to resolve any issues you are experiencing which are impacting your ability to complete your assessments.
More information can be found on our SharePoint page – Consideration of Personal Circumstances.
You can also take a look at Extenuating Circumstances Scenario and Evidence Framework and our Consideration of Personal Circumstances Student Flowchart.

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/research-students-intranet/documents
SOURCE_DOC: Getting Started Canvas and Pebblepad.pdf

Research Students
CANVAS AND PEBBLEPAD
You will receive an email with an invitation from Canvas to Researcher Development which you need to accept.
You can then proceed to complete the Academic Integrity module which is in the modules section of the Researcher Development course on Canvas.
You also need activate your Atlas account so you can use Pebblepad. Do this by clicking the Pebblepad portfolio hyperlink on the home page, or the Pebblepad ink in the left side menu.
On Pebblepad there are two resources which you will use throughout your research degree, a Development Needs Analysis (DNA) and Researcher Development portfolio.

--- SOURCE SEPARATOR ---

SOURCE_URL: https://unibradfordac.sharepoint.com/sites/research-students-intranet/documents
SOURCE_DOC: Intellectual-Property-for-PGR-students-2016.pdf

Research Students
Statement of Principles Relating to the IPR of Student Research
I. Authorship
1. Students have a right to have their name as author wherever their research contributes to the findings of the paper.
2. Students’ work will be acknowledged in a footnote/reference in the usual way where their work is merely part of the overall context of the specific argument or contribution of the publication.
3. Supervisors have a right to have their name as author wherever their research contributes to the findings of the paper. They have an additional right to authorship under specified circumstances, which might include: a) a supervisor (and/or other colleagues) playing a key role in obtaining major funding and/or equipment for the project; b) supervisors (and/or other colleagues) being the author of a key intellectual body of work from which the student project is derivative. Such circumstances would normally be for a limited period, to be determined by the Faculty’s Publications Adjudication Panel. After this period has elapsed, fulsome acknowledgement of staff contributions would be identified through other means besides authorship, unless the staff member has active participation in the writing itself.
4. Where students’ publications are not primarily derived from work to which supervisors have contributed, supervisors do not have an automatic right to joint authorship of all publications. Students publishing as sole authors under these circumstances will nonetheless acknowledge the contribution of the University in an initial footnote, and will specifically highlight individuals such as supervisors or other research leaders where appropriate.
5. In all cases efforts should be made to agree authorship before the point of publication, and even at the point of preparing a research bid. This should also include securing the written permission of any named authors to confirm that they agree to be acknowledged, as such, in the publication.
6. In all Faculties there should be at least one Publications Adjudication Panel, which should include a senior member of the university such as Dean or Associate Dean Research, to which students and staff should turn for advice or adjudication on matters relating to authorship.
7. There should be an Appeal process against the decision of the Publications Adjudication Panel for both students and staff - to Senate (delegating authority to the Research Degrees Committee or Ethics Committee).
II. Commercial Exploitation Other Than Through Publication
1. The role of the Research & Knowledge Transfer Support office as adjudicator and broker is key here and some principles should be published.
2. There should be an Appeal process to Senate (delegating authority to the Research Degrees Committee or Ethics Committee).
III. Restricted Access of Theses in Library and Digital Repository
1. The decision to restrict access should be taken by the Faculty’s Publications Adjudication Panel, with an Appeal process for students and staff to Senate (delegating authority to the Research Degrees Committee or Ethics Committee).
Grounds will include:
- commercial sensitivity (where secrecy is crucial to maximising income);
- risk to author and the institution because of the nature of the methodology (eg. experiments with live animals) or the outcome (eg. criticisms of a government which would persecute the author).
2. Approval should be granted for a set period for up to 5 years, but an indefinite period could be granted where the circumstances are still pertinent.
3. Further consideration to be given to the possibility of a ‘partial restriction’, where the bound thesis may be available on request from the library but a copy not be required for the e-repository, so that readership (and potential plagiarism) of yet-to-be published work can be monitored.